Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Precision Farming SOIL NURSERY CROP GEOMETRY IRRIGATION FERTIGATION GROWTH MANAGEMENT HARVESTING POST HARVEST MANAGEMENT CLUSTER APPROACH MARKET LINKAGE EMPOWERMENT Soil The humus content, microbes, soil aeration and proper drainage must be ensured and fertility status should be restored by the following methods Green Manure Applying Gypsum 2kg per plant Neem Cake Phosphobacteria Green manure crops viz., Sun hemp must be sown 2 months before planting and during flowering it should be ploughed into soil or Green manure crops like, Sesbania or Sun hemp should be sown in alley spaces between the rows of banana plants at the time of planting suckers and incorporate into soil after about 60 days i.e. before seed setting stage. Application of Gypsum @ 2 Kg /plant along with 15 Kg of FYM /plant or 45t/ha helps to maintain the soil pH and in turn all major and micro nutrients are available to the plant. Application of Potassium Humate @ 25 liters per hectare twice during third and fifth month of planting helps to maintains humus content of the soil. Neem cake @ 200 g/ plant + press mud or poultry manure or rice husk ash @ 15 Kg /plant increases not only the humus content of the soil but also controls the nematode population. Combination of VAM @ 20 g /plant + Phosphobacteria @ 20 g / plant + Azospirillum @ 50 g / plant + Trichoderma harzianum @ 20 g / plant increases the beneficial microbes in the rhizosphere. Top of Page Nursery Tissue cultured banana seedlings should be selected for planting under precision farming. The tissue culture plants maintains uniformity, fast growing nature and about 20 days earlier in flowering and about 35 days shorter crop cycle with significantly higher yields than suckers. The following points should be considered for the selection of tissue cultured plants. Selection Criteria Tissue Culture banana seedlings Proliferation of tissue culture seedlings Poly bag filled with soil and potting media Seedlings with five leaves A well hardened plant with minimum of 30 cm in height and should have a pseudo stem circumference of 5.0 – 6.0 cm after 45 – 60 days of hardening should be selected. The plant should have 5 photo synthetically active leaves and inter foliar space must be not less than 5.0 cm. The plant should have approximately 25 – 30 active roots at the end of secondary hardening stage. The length of active roots should be more than 15 cm with a good number of secondary roots. The poly bag should be of size (20 cm in length and 16 cm in diameter) with potting media filled to ¾ full of the bag. The media / potting mixture approximately should weigh about 750 – 800g on dry weight basis. Plant lets should be free from any visual symptoms of leaf spot, pseudo stem rot and physical deformations. Plant lets should be free from the presence of root pathogens like erwinia rot symptoms, nematode lesions and root knots. Random checking of roots is very essential at the time of procurement. Those exhibiting abnormal growth must be discarded. Top of Page Crop Geometry Crop geometry is highly affected by planting density. The vegetative growth, flowering and fruit growth is not seasonal and are largely influenced by time of planting. Traditionally banana may be planted in 1.8m × 1.8m. In Precision farming, laterals placed for banana may be used for vegetables also. Hence, the lateral spacing of 1.5m may be fixed and the banana may be planted in the spacing of 1.5 × 2.1 m and totally around 3175 plants can be planted. Crop Geometry Top of Page Irrigation In Precision Farming, irrigation is done by drip irrigation system. In sandy loam soil, laterals may be placed @ 6 feet spacing and the drippers of 50 cm or 60 cm may be selected and the water delivery of 3.5 and 4.0 liters per hour respectively. This 6 feet lateral spacing is suitable only for banana. The lateral spacing of 150 cm may be fixed and planting may be done in the spacing of 5 × 7 feet distance. Water requirement for banana plants is about 900 – 1200 for its total duration. For better growth and productivity optimum moisture at all stages of growth and good drainage facility to drain out excess water from the root zone. Under drip irrigation, water is allowed to reach the root zone of the crop in small quantities. Stage wise water requirement of banana is given below Top of Page Fertigation Fertigation is the technique of précised application of dissolved fertilizer to the crops along with irrigation water through appropriate injection device. Through drip irrigation, the water soluble fertilizers and other nutrients can be precisely applied to the soil at appropriate times in desired concentration. These nutrients being placed around the plant roots uniformly and facilitates rapid uptake of nutrients by the plant Fertigation devices Water Soluble Fertilizers can be injected into irrigation systems by three principal methods. Venturi device. Fertigation Tank and Displacement pump or Fertigation pump. Venturi device Water flowing through the venturi creates a suction that draws the fertilizer solution into the line. This injection method is inaccurate because pressure and flow rates vary in a drip irrigation system. Fertigation Tank The fertigation tanks of different sizes viz., 60 l, 90 l, 120 l etc., can be used for fertigation. The pressure difference exists in the input and out put valves sucks the nutrient solution from the tank and pass on to the irrigation pipes. Fertigation Pump These inject fertilizer directly into the drip irrigation pipes at a uniform rate. Small electric pumps draw a known volume of solution and force it into the irrigation line. Fertigation Venturi device Fertigation tank Fertigation pump Water Soluble Fertilizers All the commonly available fertilizers may not be used in fertigation since, they are not 100% soluble. The water soluble solid or liquid fertilizers are highly suitable and the selection of these fertilizers have to meet the following criteria: Solubility: The selected fertilizer grade should be 100 per cent soluble and the solubility of fertilizers is reduced when two or three fertilizers are mixed together. When compare the solubility of Nitrogen fertilizers the following should be considered. It should avoid corrosion, softening of plastic pipes and clogging of the irrigation system. It should not react adversely to salts and other chemicals present in irrigation water. It should be completely soluble in water and When more than one fertilizer is used, they should not react with each other to form a precipitate. Commonly available fertilizers used in Fertigation Scheduling of fertigation Tissue cultured banana responds well under fertigation and requires 50 per cent extra fertilizers than the suckers planting under conventional system. Application of 200-30-300 g of N: P2O5:K2O /plant using water soluble fertilizers through fertigation is essential. Fertigation should be done at five days interval as per the following schedule Abstract Fertilizer required for one hectare of land * Super phosphate @ 180 g /plant should be applied as basal dose at 60 DAP Fertigation method: Three important points should be noticed For effective fertigation scheduling Details of Nutrition required for one hectare Top of Page Growth Management Hi-tech greenhouse: Optimum growth of plant is governed by the availability and use of natural resources of land, water and sunlight. In general, greenhouse cultivation could be considered as protected cultivation that enhances the maturity of crop, increases yield, improves the quality of produce and in some instances reduce the use of pesticides. The use of greenhouse technology also reduces the total time for preparation of seedlings and cuttings significantly. Greenhouse is also essential for plant propagation through tissue culture. Green house Tissue culture plant in green house Dry leaves mulching In-situ moisture conservation: Mulching is a practice of covering the soil surface around plants to make conditions more conducive for plant growth. Use of dry leaves, straw, hay, stones etc. as mulching material has been prevalent for ages. However, introduction of plastic film as mulch increases the efficiency by improved moisture conservation, increased soil temperature and elimination of weed growth and hence, increase in crop yield. Mulch is also used for soil solarization. It helps to maintain favourable soil temperature during daytime and retains it during night. Spade digging and earthing up of plants are done after applying 20 g of Furadan + ½ kg Pungam oil cake at 3 MAP. Spade digging followed by earthing up is done at 4, 6 and 8 months after planting. Desuckering and removal of diseased and dried leaves should be done for 6 times (based on sucker growth). Apply 20 g furadon at 4th month after planting. Spray zinc sulphate (0.5%), ferrous sulphate (0.2%), copper sulphate (0.2%) and borax (0.1%) at 3, 5 and 7th month after planting. Remove male bud - one week after opening of last hand. Propping - one month after shoot emergence. Intercropping: Inter crops like onion, leafy coriander, beetroot; tomato (variety only) can be grown. Inter cropping should be completed within 90 days of planting of banana. Nematode repelling species like Sun hemp or marigold can be grown and incorporated with soil at maximum vegetative stage. Plastic film mulching Intercropping with Onion Propping Propping for support : Post shooting nutrient spray: Urea 1% and potassium sulphate 1.5% is sprayed after last hand opening and again sprayed at once after a month. Bunch cover: The fruit bunches are covered with ventilated (4%) polythene sleeves (200 x 150 cm), ithin 15 days of last hand opening. Spade digging Bunch covering Top of Page HARVESTING 1.Stage of maturity Bananas are generally mature on 100 to 110 days after shooting of bunches. The fruit bunches are harvested when the angularity of fruits disappears. Mature bananas are not harvested when they are yellow; they are harvested while they are still green, but with a slight yellow tint, which is hardly noticeable. The flower bract is dry and breaks off easily from the fruit tip. When tapped the fruit gives metallic sound. One week before of harvesting, should stop irrigation to the field because it reduces the fruit quality and storage period. Harvesting is to be done based on the selection of market and maturity of banana. Suppose you are going to sell the bunch in local market, harvest at 80-85% maturity and for exporting, harvest at 75% maturity. 2.Harvesting methods Manual harvesting: For banana harvesting, one or two workers are needed namely a cutter and a backer. In a large operation, there will be two workers, both the cutter and a backer. In a smaller operation, one person could do the harvesting of banana trees. The cutter is responsible for cutting the banana cluster, cutting down the plant and chopping the stem. After cutting the banana cluster the backer will carry them to the storage shed. Nylon rope harvesting: It is one of the advanced technologies in banana harvesting. In this technology, cut the hands separately from the bunch by using thin nylon rope. Put the rope in between the bunch and hands. Then, the hands will be separated easily by pulling the rope. In this method, harvesting is done easily and there is no damage on hands. It is easy to pack and transport to different places. Top of Page Post Harvest Management Bananas can be stored for up to a week in a cool place but unripe bananas should not be stored in the refrigerator, as this may irreversibly interrupt the ripening process. If the banana is no longer green it is ripe and can be stored for a maximum of one week. For storage, banana should be stored at 13° to 14°C Bunches should be kept out of light after harvest, since this hastens ripening and softening. For export, hands are cut into units of 4 -16 fingers, graded for both length and girths and carefully placed in poly-lined boxes to hold 12 to 18 kg depending on export requirement. Prior to packaging fruits are cleaned in water or dilute sodium hypochlorite solution to remove the latex and treated with thiobendazole. length & Girth Washing Grading Packing Washing: After separating hands from the bunches, wash the hands in running water to remove the latex. So, the appearance of fruit will be improved. Then, the fruits are dried in open space and taken to cooling chamber. Grading: The hands are graded based on the number and size of fingers in each hand. Overripe and injured fruits are discarded at this stage. Banana is sent to the local market as bunches. Packaging: The bunches should then be stacked vertically or horizontally on the ground added with wilted or dry banana leaves in case there is delay in transportation. The bunches are separated by spongy sheet or paper sheets which served as cushion in between the bunches and consequently damage to the fingers during transport is reduced. For exports, bananas are removed from the stem and hands and clusters of the bananas are packed in corrugated boxes with perforated polyethylene liners. The curved side of the hands is kept facing upwards making sure that the crown of the upper hands do not damage the banana underneath. Keeping quality of banana can be increased when packed in 400 gauge LDPE (low-density polyethylene) bag with or without ventilation either under ambient temperature or in zero energy cool chamber (13.5°C). Spray growth regulators: Spray Gibbrellic acid 150 ppm (150mg in 1 litre of water) + Phenomyl 500 ppm (500 mg in 1 litre of water) + Waxol 6% on banana hands to avoid ripening for 14 days in cooling chamber. Dip the banana hands in Gibbrellic acid 500 ppm (500 mg in 1 litre of water) + Chitin (2mg in 1 litre of water) to delay ripening and increase the storage period. For fruit ripening, the fruit bunches are sprayed with ethrel 5000 ppm (5ml/lit) with sodium hydroxide pellets. Storage: Storing of banana fruits in unvented polybags at low temperature could extend the shelf-life of the fruits. The fruits are stored at 13.5°C in the cooling chamber with 90 to 95% relative humidity. So, the fruits will be kept as unripe and maintain the quality for 20 days. Maintaining ethylene concentration below 1 ppm can extend postharvest life of mature green bananas. Mature-green bananas can be stored for up to 3 weeks in ethylene-free air or up to 6 weeks in a controlled atmosphere at 14°C. Top of Page Cluster Approach The cluster approach is adopted for operational conveniences and to ensure better logistics. This rendered support to collective marketing and mutual consultation and discussions. Banana farmers association Cluster approach 1.How many members are joined to form a cluster? 20 - 25 farmers are joined together to form a cluster. Each farmer possess minimum one hectare of land (2.5 acres) and he is considered as one unit. 2.Is the cluster is scattered or in one place? The clusters are from one revenue village. If not from two neighbouring villages but not in scattered manner. 3.What is the minimum requirement to join in the cluster? Each member should have minimum one hectare of land. 4.Is there any possibility to join the farmers having below one hectare of land? Yes, two or three farmers having less than one hectare can join together and avail one hectare with common water facility. 5. How the clusters are registered as associations? The group of farmers jointly together as cluster and register as association in registrar of society act. 6. How much subsidy they get from government? The clusters able to get 65% subsidy from the government. The government gives 40% subsidy as cash and the remaining 25% subsidy as inputs like seeds, fertilizers and pesticides. The clusters approach any company for drip instatallation and submit the quotation to the government. Based on the quotation submitted, the government will give 40% cash subsidy to the clusters. 7. What are the benefits of cluster approach? Cluster approach gives social recognition to farmers. Helps in obtaining services of both government and private. Serves as nodes for exchanging knowledge and information. Function as clearing house of information from sources like government, markets, buyers and other associations. Clusters serve as demonstration vehicles to disseminate technologies. Helps to obtain better value for produce as well as inputs. Helps the farmers to buy the inputs directly from the manufacturers cutting the cost down to minimum and strengthened their bargaining power while selling their produce. Farmers proficiency in cultivation practices can be achieved. Increased the corporate qualities like quantity, quality, uniformity and timely delivery. Clusters can play role in monitoring and evaluation and scaling up of effectiveness. They can give suggestions in policy making in new developmental activities. Top of Page Market Linkage: The distribution of banana is effected through growers or producers, preharvest contractors, whole salers, commission agents and retailers. The most common market channels seen in banana trade are: Producer - wholesaler - retailer - consumer Producer - village merchant - wholesaler - retailer - consumer Producers - village merchants - retailer - consumer Producer - retailer - consumer Producer - consumer Harvesting and assembling the produce for the market is done by Growers Pre-harvest contractors Village merchants. Pre harvest contractors Village Merchants i) Growers The farmers harvest the crop at periodical intervals and transport to the markets immediately without attaining uniform maturity stage The produce is assembled and marketed at the village level itself. Hence, the profit will be reduced due to the intervention of intermediaries. ii) Pre-harvest contractors Pre-harvest contractors are the main assembling agents in the case of bananas. They conduct periodical visits to the banana garden of individual small holdings and enter into contract with these farmers by advancing money to purchase the bunches. Hence, the contractor or his subagents assemble them and transport to the main markets. Pre harvest contractors operate in and around all the district markets. They are the main financing agents for the farmers. Even before all the bunches emerge in the garden, these contractors enter into contract with farmers Contract is sometimes fixed on the basis of bunches. These merchants advance money to cultivators at the time of entering into contract and go on paying as and when bunches are harvested. Some of the contractors pay only at the end. These pre-harvest contractors are the main assembling agency accounting for nearly 80 per cent of the quantity assembled. iii) Village Merchant Village merchant operate in villages near about shandies. These merchants collect the produce and sold at shandies. These merchants either make outright purchases on cash basis or act as commission agents. Top of Page Empowerment The banana farmers need the long term security of fair and stable prices for their fruit in order to continue thefarming sustainably. They also need additional investment income for tackling poverty and improving their communities. For this, the farmers form the clusters and federations at state level. So they will attain social, economical and political empowerment. Social Empowerment: The precision farmers form federations at state level and registered. From this associations, the farmers strengthen the commodity group based activities, conduct periodical group interactions. Technical knowledge have been equally shared among all the members. By getting high yield, they improve social status in their society. Economical Empowerment: The associations has empowered the farmers to gain better access to the market, collective bargaining has enabled the association to attract the attention of many corporate to come forward to sign trading contracts. The input suppliers are made to make presentations on their products and the association is able to procure inputs at distributors rate. They supply inputs in right time and nominal price. They develop infrastructures like cold storage, collection centre, procession unit, transport facility etc., through the associations. They pool the farmer’s resources to transport the produces to the market, saving time and effort, and guaranteeing delivery. The precision farming bananas are rated as super class in all the markets and offered premium prices throughout the year. They arrange exposure visits to various post harvest handling units and periodical group interactions have led to more profit realization to the farmers. These associations will be helpful to the farmers to improve their economic status. Political Empowerment:: The precision farmers associations can able to approach the government for getting subsidies, crop loans, crop insurance schemes etc., Revolving funds also given to associations as same as that of SHGs . They can able to participate with central and state government office bearers while preparing new development programmes and give suggestions to change the policies in government. Top of Page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links About Us Objective : The proposed project aims development of expert system for crop and animal enterprises facilitating instant decision making process of the farmers through ICT enabled mechanism. The expert system will also be synchronized with the existing KVK e-linking system for its implementation. The specific objective of the project is to develop expert system for crop and animal enterprises for instsnt decision making. Lead Centre : Directorate of Research on Women in Agriculture, Bhuvaneshwar. Other Network Centres : Zonal Coordinating Unit, Zone VIII, Bangalore, Karnataka. Directorate of Extension Education, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. Directorate of Extension Education, TANUVASU, Chennai, Tamil Nadu. Resources Centres : Kannada - Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Malayalam - C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram. Tamil - Anna University, Chennai. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Contact Us Sponsored by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi (2009-2012) Project Officer Dr.T.Manoharan, Professor (Agricultural Entomology) Research Team E.Vadivel (Former Project Officer, Precision Farming & e-Extension) R.Venkatachalam, ICT Co-ordinator N.Sriram, Assistant Professor (Agrl. Extn) N.Anandaraja, Assistant Professor (Agrl. Extn) I.Muthuvel, Assistant Professor (Horticulture) Research Fellows Content Development Team: Mrs. S. Mohana, JRF Mrs. N. Manoranjitham, SRF Mrs. P. Suhirdha, SRF Mrs. S.Gowsalya, SRF Software Development Team: Mr.R.S. Swamiappan, Programme Assistant (Computer) Mr. K. S.Gobinath, SRF Mr. M. Madankumar, SRF Mr. S.Karthick, SRF Ms. K. Meenambigai, SRF Ms. A. Sameembanu, SRF Mrs. S. Saranya, SRF Mrs. R. Gandhimathi, SRF Mrs. A. Seethalakshmi, SRF Mrs. P.Deepa, JRF Mrs. R. Jothi, JRF Ms. K. Kiruthika, SRF Ms. M. Saranya, JRF For further details: Contact: e-Extension Centre Technology Park 5 Directorate of Extension Education Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore - 641 003 Ph: 0422-6611383, Fax: 0422-6611521 portal@tnau.ac.in / info@tnau.ac.in Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Introduction Banana (Musa sp.) Family : Musaceae Banana is one of the oldest and most popular fruit. Banana is otherwise called ‘Apple of Paradise’. The Indo-Malayan region is believed to be the place of origin. It is widely used as a fresh fruit. The central core of the pseudostem is used as a vegetable. The banana pseudostem is also used for manufacturing paper and boards. India ranks first in terms of area and production, growing in about 4,90,700 ha with an annual production of 168,13,500 mt, sharing about 17% of global production. Among the various states in India, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra account for major share in area and production. In Tamil Nadu banana is grown in almost all the districts with more area under the districts like Trichy, Tuticorin, Coimbatore and Kanyakumari. Banana is a tall herb producing pseudostem which is the aerial stem made up of a number of leaf sheaths completely encircling the axis of the stem. Inflorescence is a terminal complex spike, each spike being subtended with big bracts. The flowers in the basal side of the peduncle behave as pistillate one while in the terminal ones as staminate one and those in the intermediate as transitional stage but are functionally male. The axis beyond the female phase is generally bare, but in some cultivars, flowers and bracts are retained. Fruit is a berry and in edible bananas they develop by vegetative parthenocarpically. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Botany of Banana Parts of the Banana Seed Root Stem Leaf Inflorescence Flowers Perianth Androecium Gynoecium Fruit Seed Cultivated bananas are parthenocarpic, which makes them sterile and unable to produce viable seeds. Top of page Root Fibrous adventitious root system Root depth was strongly influenced by soil type and drainage Positive correlation between bunch weight and quantity of roots producted. Root system confined mostly to the upper 40 cm of soil because of unfavorable subsoil conditions produced less bunches. No new root emissions after 75 to 90 days after planting or when 6-10 leaves had developed. Root growth was best at day /night temperature of 25/18° C . Extent of root growth radially and in depth was a good yield indicator. Top of page Stem The real stem is underground called rhizome. A single, lateral, vegetative bud which is positioned 180o C from the axil of the leaf is a generic feature The apparent, unbranched, errect and areal pseudostem is formed by the long, stiff and sheathy leaf bases which are rolled around one another to form an aerial pseudostem. Shaft - the central axis that is concealed at the bottom of the pseudostem. At the time of flowering, the shaft elongates, pierces through the pseudostem and produces an inflorescence terminally. Musa is monocorpic perennial, because it produces flowers and fruits once during its life time Top of page Leaf The leaves are spirally arranged and consist of asheath, a petiole and a blade. The sheaths are nearly circular and tightly packed into non woody pseudostem which is functioning as the trunk of the plant. They are much longer than the blades. The petiole is rounded beneath and channeled above In general, shape of the blade is blunt at the tip and tapered, rounded or even auriculate at the base. It is thickest near the mid rid and thinnest at the margins. The veins of the lamina are parallel with each other. Top of page Inflorescence The inflorescence is branched spadix. The flowers are protected by large, brightly coloured, spirally arranged, boat shaped bracts called spathes. When the flowers open, the spathes roll back and finally fall off. The flowers are polygamous i.e. staminate flowers, pistillate flowers and bisexual flowers are present in the same plant. The male flowers lie within the upper bracts, the female flowers within the lower bracts and the bisexual flowers within the middle bracts. Top of page Flowers Flowers are placed in the axils of the bracts, arranged biseriately and commonly number about to 12 to 20 per node. Basal flowers behave as pistillate flowers while the terminal ones as staminate. At the lower end, they form a bulbous male bud. The axis beyond the female phase is generally bare, but in some cultivars flowers and bracts are retained. The intermediate flower clusters are of transitional stage structure and are fuctionally male. Individual flowers are ebracteolate. Top of page Perianth Tepals 6 arranged in two whorls of 3 each, free or united. In Musa, the three tepals of the outer whorl and the two lateral tepals of the inner whorl are fused by valvate aestivation to form 5 toothed tube like structure. The inner posterior tepal is alone free. It is distinctly broad and membranous. Top of page Androecium Basically stamens 6, in two whorls of 3 each, arranged opposite to the tepals. Only 5 stamens are fertile and the inner posterior stamen is either absent or represented by a staminode. Top of page Gynoecium Ovary inferior, tricarpellary, syncarpous, trilocular, numerous ovules on axile placentation. The style is simple and filiform. The stigma is three lobed. Top of page Fruit In edible bananas, the fruit develops by vegetative parthenocarpy i.e. the ovary develops into a mass of edible pulp without the fertilization and even without the stimulus of pollination. So the fruits are seedless. In the bunch, each cluster is called hand and the individual fruit is called a finger. Fruit is a berry and has a leathery epicarp, slightly fibrous mesocarp, and fleshy endocarp. Top of page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Climate Latitude and Altitude Banana is a tropical plant requiring a warm and humid climate. Tamil Nadu : Bananas can be grown from sea level to an altitude of 1200 metres. The latitude for banana is 10° N to 12° N. Kerala : Bananas can be grown from sea level to an altitude of 1200 metres. The latitude for banana is 10° N to 14° N. Karnataka : Bananas can be grown from sea level to an altitude of 1200 metres. The latitude for banana is 14° N to 28° N for Coastal, South and North region. Temperature The problems which result in a banana plantation from low winter temperatures serve to only emphasize the importance of adequate heat as a factor, in banana production. In coastal areas of Tamil Nadu the cyclonic wind damages the plantations. Hence it is advisable to select areas where mean temperature is around 25°C -30°C with a mean annual rainfall of 100 mm per month. Rainfall Banana requires on an average, 1700mm rainfall distributed throughout the year for its satisfactory growth. Stagnation of water is injurious and may cause diseases like panama wilt. Wind Wind exerts profound influence on growth and production of banana and it is considered as the scourge in banana plantation world wide. Wind velocity more than 50 km/hour causes serious damage to banana plantation. Pseudostems at preflower initiation stage are sometimes cut above ground level to avoid severe wind damage. However, this practice is adopted only in cyclone prone areas. A wind velocity of 18-30 km/h is sufficient to spilt the leaf lamina. Winds at 54-72 km/h can upturn and blow down large plantation while winds at 90-100 km/h completely destroy banana plantations. Humidity When growing banana tree, the humidity must be taken into consideration. A humidity of at least 50%, preferably higher, is recommended since the banana plant is native to hot and humid parts of the world. Dry air will damage the banana leaves. Sunshine and Light Part shade, particularly the edges of forests and along roadways; too much shade can impair the development of the fruit while too much sun necessitates lots of watering . The banana plant is native to parts of the world where the sunshine is very strong and bright light is therefore a good idea if you want to be successful when growing banana tree. Approximately 12 hours of strong light is recommended for most types of banana. Top of page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links SEASON AND VARIETY Season Varieties Season TAMILNADU Wetland The Best time for planting in Wetland are Febraury to April and April to Mayan, Nendran and Robusta Poovan, Rasthalli, Monthan, Karpooravalli,and Ney Poovan are the best varieties grown well at the time of Febraury to April. Nendran and Robusta are the best varieties grown well at the time of April to May. Garden lands The best time for planting in Garden Lands are January to Febraury and November to December Robusta, Nendran,D.Cavendish are the best varieties grown well in Garden lands. Padugai lands The best time for planting in Padugai lands are January to Febraury and August to September. Hill banana The best time for planting in Hill Banana are April to May and June to August. Namaran,Ladan,Manoranjitham Sirumalai and Virupakshi are the best varieties grown well in Hill Banana. Tissue banana The best time for planting in Tissue banana are Throughout the year (except when temperature is too low or too high). Grand naine is the best variety grown well in Tissue Banana. KERALA Irrigated crop The best time for planting in Irrigated crop is August to September. Nendran (Clones)like Nedunendran, Zanzibar,Chengalikodan and Table varieties like Monsmarie, Robusta, Giant Governor, Dwarf Cavendish, Chenkadali, Poovan, Palayankodan, Njalipoovan, Amritsagar, Grosmichael, Karpooravally, Poomkalli, Koompillakannan, Chinali Dudhsagar), BRS-1 and BRS-2 are the best varieties grown well in Irrigated crop. Intercropping in coconut The best time for planting in Intercropping in Coconut is April to May and August to September. Njalipoovan, Robusta, BRS-1 and BRS-2. Dudhsaga(highly resistant to major pests and diseases) are the varieties grown well. The variety Boldles Altafort is recommended for high range region (ad hoc). Rainfed Crop The best time for planting in Rain fed crop is April to May. Culinary varieties like Monthan, Batheesa, Kanchekela, Nendrapadathy are the best varieties grown well in Rain fed crop KARNATAKA The best time for planting in karnataka is by the end of the june. Peak season in karnataka are April-June September-March Bontha and Mauritius and for Poovan the best time is November to January beacause it has a no longer duration Top of page Varieties Hybrids: CO 1 It is a hybrid clone released by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore involving three parents - Ladan, Kadali and Musa balbisiana. It is akin to hill banana Virupakshi in flavour and taste and suitable for growing in the plains and hills upto 1200 meters elevation. It yields about 22 t/ha. The crop duration is 14 months. Top of page Udhayam Special Features This hybrid is developed by single plant selection from Pisang Awak (AAB) sub group at National research Centre for banana , Trichi. Plant is hardy, tall, robust, bunch weight varies from 30-35 kg. Hands are well spaced with cylindrical shape which facliattes packing, loading and transport with minimum damage. Fruit quality is medium, sugar acid blend is good with maximum yellow life (7days). Remarks It is ideal cultivar for wind prone areas. Immune to Banana Bunchy Top viral diseases, salt tolerance and normal bunch mass even under marginal condition. Highly susceptible to Fusarium wilt disease. Top of page BRS1 Special Features It is triploid hybrid of banana by crossing Agniswar x Pisang Lilin developed at Banana Research Station, Kannara, Kerala Agricultural University. It is a medium tall plant, supporting 14-16 kg bunch without propping. Elongated fruits turn attractive golden yellow on ripening. Slightly acid fruits. Remarks It has a remarkable early rationing ability completing four crops in three years. It is a promising hybrid owing to short cropping cycle resistance to leaf spot,Fusarium wilt and burrowing nematode. Top of page BRS 2 Special Features It is a hybrid of Vannan x Pisang Lilin developed at Kannara Banana research station, Kerala Agricultural University. It is medium stature plant. Average weight of bunch ranges from 15-20 kg with short, stout, dark green Poovan like fruits which are arranged compactly. Fruits are slightly acidic with pleasant sweet-sour aroma. Remarks Tolerance to leaf spot diseases and nematodes. Top of page FHIA-0 1 Special Features It is also called as Gold finger and high yielding hybrids which replace Pachananda and Bluggoe varieties. It is a Pome hybrid developed from the combination of SH-3142 x Dwarf Prata in Honduras. It bears heavy bunches (20-25 kg) without propping in 14-15 months. Fruits have sub acidic or apple flavor. It is highly resistant to black Sigatoka, Fusarium wilt and apparently resistant to burrowing nematode. Fruits have a good shelf life without premature detaching. Remarks Fruits are used as dual purpose. It has superior growth, yield and quality pararmeters than Pachanadan. Its tolerance to sodicity has been a boon to saline sodic soils of India. Top of page Saba It is an introduction from Phillipines and it is found promising under in saline sodic soils. It could perform well withpout any yield reduction in sodic soils with PH 8.5-8.75. Plant with huge pseudostem and grows to a height of 16-20 feet. It is a sturdy plant and somewhat cold tolerant. The fruit is large and angular even when ripe. It has a white pulp which is sweet when ripe although very starchy. This cultivar is used for cooking. Top of page Grand Naine Special Features Each bunch will be having 10 to 12 hands with 175 to 225 fruits. The fruits of Grand Naine Banana variety are delicious to eat and keeping quality of the fruit is good. High yield (Avg. 30 kg per plant) Long cylindrical fruits with less curvature. Good keeping quality. Attractive yellowish green colour at maturity. Internationally acceptable both as fresh fruit and in processed form. Pulp to peel ratio is more and highly suitable for processing. Top of page Tamil Nadu Culinary Varieties Monthan Special Features Exclusive culinary variety, widely cultivated for processing. Plant hardy, somewhat drought resistant. Suitable for growing as intercrop in .coconut gardens. Suitable for cultivation for leaf production in Trichy and Tanjore districts of Tamil Nadu. Bunch medium, 20 to 25 kgs, 60 fruits. Fruits large, irregularly five sided, ridges prominent, slightly curved, broad at base tapering towards apex, rominent knob-like beak, long pedicel. Peel - thick, tough, peels with difficulty, dark green turning straw yellow. Pulp - firm, cream coloured, core conspicuous, medium taste. Fairly tolerant to nematodes and leaf spot and rhizome rot diseases. Crop duration 12 to 14 months. It is highly susceptible to Fusarium wilt disease Top of page Ney mannan Special Features Vayal vazhai of Tanjore, Mey Vannan of Kongad, Naattu vazhai of Pannaikkadu. Plant robust, medium height. Bunch large, compact, 18 kg, upto 10 hands. Fruits – small to medium, plump at base, tapering at apex, irregularly 5 sided, thick beak. Peel - thick, tough, peels easily, dark green turning orange yellow when ripe. Pulp - firm, white, not very sweet. Crop duration 12 months. Top of page Desert Varieties Dwarf Cavendish Special Features Introduced variety, important for international trade and high density planting. Plant dwarf. Bunch weight 20 - 25kg, 12 hands, 150 or more fruits. Fruits - large, long curved, peel - thick, green, greenish colour retained to some extent even after ripening. Pulp - soft, sweet, juicy, delightful aroma. Top of page Chakkerakeli Special Features Choice variety grown in Tamil Nadu in Kulitalai & Thanjavur regions. Exceedingly sweet but poor fruit keeping quality. Plant - slender, medium size, petiole borders open & conspicuously red. Crop duration – 13 months. Bunches with 8 hands of 12 fingers each, 10 kg weight. Fruits - medium size, cylindrical, somewhat 5 cornered non prominent ridges, pedicel long and tough; thin skin which peels off easily, pulp - yellowish, juicy, tasty. Top of page Robusta Special Features Semi dwarf mutant of the tall Lacatan. Plant – medium sized, stem dark purple with greenish tinge. Bunch – pendulous, 7-9 hands per bunch, 12-15 fingers per hand. Average 100 fruits per bunch, 25-30 kg. Fruits - large, skin medium thick, ripe fruits drop off easily, fruits - green to dull yellow, pulp - sweet, juicy, agreeable flower, better keeping quality than Dwarf Cavendish. Susceptible to leaf spot, corm weevil, rhizome rot and mosaic diseases. Crop duration - 12 to 14 months. Top of page Rasthali Special Features Delicious variety grown mostly in Erode and Tiruchirapally districts. Plant tall (4 to 4.5m height), stem - yellowish green with brownish blotches, reddish margins of petiole and leaf sheath. Bunch - 15 to 20kg, 8 to16 hands, 60 to 80 fruits. Fruits - medium sized, cylindrical to spindle shaped, weak pedicel, skin - thin, peels easily, ivory yellow, flesh - firm, sweet, pleasant aroma. Demerits are its susceptibility to panama wilt, formation of hard lump in pulp and easy dropping of fruits from the bunch. Crop duration - 14 to15 months. Top of page Ariyanka Rasthali Special Features It is also called as Poovilla Konnai in Pollachi areas and Ayiranka Poovan in Tirchur. An unstable bud variant of Rasthali. Varies from Rasthali only in that there are no male flowers so that the whole axis is covered with fruits. The fruits of the first 5 to 6 hands are same as those of Rasthali, while the rest differ only in size. Bunch 500 fruits, 25 kg. Crop duration 15 months. Top of page Karpooravalli Special Features It is a popular variety grown for table purpose in medium rich soils. Its commercial cultivation is spread over Central and Southrn districts of Tamil Nadu. It is also sweetest among Indian bananas. Plant - stout, vigorous and tall with large leaves, stem light green with purplish tinge. Bunch 8-9 compact hands, 13-14 fingers per hand, 100 to 120 fruits per bunch. Fruits - medium size, persistent on pedicel even after ripening, skin - medium thick, yellow with ashy coating. Pulp - sweet and juicy, firm, pleasant flavour. This variety thrives even in alkaline soils. It can also be raised for leaf production It is fairly tolerant to corm weevil Crop duration 12-14 months. Top of page Virupakshi Special Features Premium variety grown in the lower Palani hills of Kodaikanal range in Tamil Nadu. Perennial banana of high quality, grown as rainfed crop either as mixed with coffee or pure plantation. Plants - tall, 4.5 to 5.0m height Poor yielder, with small bunches 8 -12 kg, 7 - 8 hands of 10 -12 fruits each,80 - 90 fruits per bunch. Fruits - small to medium, prominently ridged, skin - thick, leathery, greenish yellow and turning black when over ripe, peels easily. Pulp - white or pale yellow, dry, sweet with delightful flavour. Very good keeping quality. Fruits strongly attached to pedicel even on ripening. Crop duration is 15-18 months. It has the characteristic flavor only when they are cultivated in higher elevation. Perennial system aggravates Banana Bunchy Top Virus (BBTV). Top of page Sirumalai Special Features The Sirumalai type grown in the Sirumalai Hills is considered to be an ecotype of Virupakshi. The only difference is that in the Sirumalai type, pulp is not as dry, but is juicier to sweeter and richer in flower. Fruit attachment to the pedicel is not as strong as in Virupakshi. Crop duration 14 months. Top of page Poovan Special Features Important commercial variety of Tamil Nadu produced year round in largequantities. Plant tall and vigorous. Bunch - large, 25 kgs, 12 hands, upto 18 fingers, 200 or more fruits. Fruits - medium size, cylindrical, pronounced nipple, skin - thin, bright yellow, peels off easily Pulp - soft, juicy, yellow, acid-sweet taste, good flavour. Crop duration 11-14 months. It is highly susceptible to Banana Mosaic Virus(BBMV) and Banana Streak Virus (BSV) which causes reduction in yield. Top of page Red banana Special Features It is the most relished and highly prized variety. Its commercial cultivation is prominent in Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli districts of Tamil Nadu Lesser grown variety, grows upto elevation of 1300 m above msl. Plant tall, robust, pseudostem petiole characteristic deep red colour, free suckering. Bunch 20-25 kg, over 100 fruits under good management practices. Fruits - large, spindle shaped, short pedicel, blunt tip, peel - thick, leathery, red colour, peels easily. Pulp - orange yellow, juicy,sweet, moderate but distinct flavour. Fairly tolerant to wilt disease. Crop duration 18 months. It is highly susceptible to bunchy top, fusarium wilt and nematodes. Top of page Sanna Chenkadalai Hardy variety. Plant resembles that of red banana with red coloured pseudostem, petiole and midrib. Bunch medium sized. Fruits - small, slender, pronounced tip, peel red colour. Pulp - light orange yellow. Performs well even in complete shade suited for planting in coconut grooves. Tolerant to leaf spot. Crop duration 12 months. Top of page Matti Special Features Common variety of Southern districts of Tamil Nadu. Plants less hardy. Bunch - excellent grade, upto 30 kg, 18 hands Fruits - small, long, pronounced tip. Pulp good taste Useful variety for breeding as it is male and female fertile. Crop duration 12 months. Top of page Namarai Special Features Grown commonly in Kanyakumari district. Not hardy Good male parent for breeding purposes Fruits small with good taste Crop duration 12 months. Top of page Pachanadan Special Features It is a popular variety in Tamil Nadu especially for its cooling effects in hot tracts in summer. It is well suited as an intercrop in coconut/arecanut garden. Duration is about 15 months. The bunch weight ranges from 12-15 kg (after 11-12 months). It is used both when green and ripe. Pachanadan could be used in the Nendran plantations for gap filling as it comes up for harvest along with Nendran. It is tolerant to leaf spot and Banana Bunchy Top Virus(BBTV) diseases, but susceptible to wilt disease. Top of page Lacatan Special Features The Lacatan cultivar is the typical bananas we found in the market for dessert. It has an attractive golden yellow color when ripe. The skin can be removed easily with some rags sticking to the pulp, revealing a light orange to orange pulp. The cultivar has a very aromatic and excellent flavor. Fruit size ranges from 10 to 20 cm in length. Top of page Dual Purpose varieties Nendran Special Features Largely grown in Trichirapalli and Coimbatore districts. Important variety for processing. Fruits eaten ripe and raw, or used as vegetable in the mature unripe condition. Plant has distinct pink colouration in pseudostem. Bunch not compact, 12-15 kgs, 4-6 hands, 3 prominent ridges, distinct nipple. Fruits - large, long, thick, peel - thick and leathery, golden yellow, peels with difficulty. Pulp - firm, flesh coloured, core fairly conspicuous mild flavour, medium sweet. Good keeping quality. Not suitable for ratoon crop. Crop duration 11-12 months. Top of page Sakkai Special Features It is commercially cultivated under low input conditions owing to its tolerance to drought, salt and nematodes. It is a dual purpose variety. Commercial plantations is seen in Madurai,Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari districts of Tamil Nadu. It is a medium plant which takes 12-14 months to come to harvest. Bunch weights about 15-18 kg. Fruits are short, stout and have no knob. Top of page Karnataka Culinary Varieties Monthan/ Kari bale Special Features It is a widely distributed variety in all banana growing areas of Karnataka. It is a fairly tall and robust plant weighing a bunch of 18-20 kg. Fruits arebold, stocky,knobbed and pale green in colour. Apart from its culinary purpose, pith is highly relished vegetable with lot of medicinal properties. Male flowers without stamens are also used as a popular dish. It is highly susceptible to banana bract mosaic virus and Fusarium wilt disease. Top of page Bontha Special Features Bunch has 5-6 hands. This is the foremost cooking variety of the state. The fruits are short slightly curved with prominent ridges and blunt apex. The rind is thick and green with whitish pulp. The male bud is also used for culinary purpose, Suitable for entire state. Top of page Desert Varieties Dwarf Cavendish Special Features It is a popular commercial cultivar grown extensively for table and processing purpose in Karnataka. The plant stature is Dwarf making it less prone to wind damage. The bunch size, the fruit length and size is quite good though the keeping quality is rather poor. The average bunch weight with 6-7 hands and with about 13 fruits per hand is about 15 - 25 kg. The thick rind of the fruits retains to some extent the greenish colour even when the fruits are ripe. Performs well under light soils with high inputs. In combination with high-density planting and drip irrigation, Dwarf Cavendish is becoming a highly successful cultivar. It is highly susceptible to Sigatoka leaf spot disease in humid tropics restricting its commercial cultivation. Top of page Robusta Special Features It is a semi-tall variety, grown mostly in Tamil Nadu and some parts of Karnataka for table purpose. It is a high yielding and produces bunch of large size with well developed fruits. Dark green fruits turn bright yellow upon ripening depending on ripening conditions. Fruit is very sweet with a good aroma. Bunch weighs about 25-30 kg. Requires propping. Fruit has a poor keeping quality leading to a quick breakdown of pulp after ripening, hence not suited for long distance transportation. Robusta is highly susceptible to Sigatoka leaf spot disease in humid tropics. Top of page Amruthapani (Rasthali) Special Features It is a medium tall variety commercially grown in Karnataka. Its unique fruit quality has made Rasthali popular and a highly prized cultivar for table purpose. Fruits are yellowish green throughout their development, but turn pale yellow to golden yellow after ripening. Fruit is very tasty with a good aroma. Longer crop duration, severe susceptibility to Fusarium wilt, requirement of bunch cover to protect fruits from sun cracking and formation of hard lumps in fruits make crop production more expensive. Top of page Poovan Special Features It is a leading commercial cultivar grown throughout the country with location specific ecotypes. It is generally cultivated as a perennial crop. Fruit is slightly acidic, firm and has typical sour-sweet aroma. Fruits turn to attractive golden yellow on ripening. Medium sized bunch, closely packed fruits, good keeping quality and resistant to fruit cracking is its plus points. But it is highly susceptible to Banana Bract Mosaic Viral (BBMV) disease and Banana Streak Virus, (BSV), which cause considerable reduction in yield. Top of page Elakki Bale Special Features It is generally called as Ney Poovan. Ney Poovan is the choicest diploid cultivar, which is under commercial mono cultivation on a large scale especially in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Ney Poovan is a slender plant bearing bunches of 15-30 kg after 12-14 months. Dark green fruits turn golden yellow with a very good keeping quality. Fruit is highly fragrant, tasty, powdery and firm. Ney Poovan is tolerant to leaf spot but susceptible to Fusarium wilt and banana bract mosaic virus. Top of page Safed Velchi Special Features This is considered a good quality fruit for table purpose. It is grown under the shade of arecanut gardens in the South Kanara districts of Karanataka. This variety is mediumsized with slender yellowish green pseudostem and can be recognised by the reddish petiole margin, large fruits, very thin and papery rind and white firm flesh that is very sweet. The average bunch weight is about 12 kg with about 150 fruits/bunch. The duration of the variety is about 13 months. Top of page Najanagud Rasabale Special Features The area of cultivation of Nanjangud rasabale, a special variety of banana only in and around Nanjangud areas of Karnataka. The Nanjangud rasabale, which has unique characteristics, is identified by its distinct aroma when it ripens fully. The fruit is also characterised by its medium size and gall formation in the pulp. A major characteristic of the fruit is its long shelf life, as it survives for around a fortnight after its starts ripening. It is more vulnerable to panama wilt, a soil-borne disease, than other plantain varieties such as yelakki and pacchbale (chikkibale). Top of page Chandra Bale Special Features It is otherwise called as ‘Red Banana’ It is characterized by uniformly purple red pigmented pseudostem, leaf pedicel and bunch peduncle. Plant is robust, tall variety. Basically a shy yielder but has the potential to yield 30-40 kg bunches under favourable conditions. It is highly susceptible to banana bunchy top virus, nematodes and wilt. Top of page Marabale Special Features It is also called as hill banana. It is a tall, strong and sturdy plant. Fruits are angular, thick skinned and are loosely arranged on the female axis. Fruits turn yellowish green upon ripening with cream coloured pulp having distinctive flavor. It is well suited as a shade plant for young coffee plantation. It is threatened by banana bunchy top virus aggravated by perennial system of cultivation of hill banana. Top of page Ney Poovan Special Features Ney poovan is the unique diploid assuming commercial monoclonal cultivation on a large scale especially in Karnataka. It is a slender , medium tall plant and bears bunch weight of 10-15 kg. Fruits are smaller, slender with a prominent beak, are packed closely round the axis having a wind blown appearance. Unripe fruits turn bright yellow upon ripening, pulp is ivory white in colour. It is known for its good keeping quality and non detaching nature of fruit from the bunch making it suitable for long transportation. It is tolerant to leaf spot disease but susceptible to Fusarium wilt, nematodes banana bract mosaic virus. Kerala Culinary Varieties Nendran Special Features Fruits have a distinct neck with thick green skin turning buff yellow on ripening. Fruits remain as starchy even on ripening. Remarks Highly susceptible to Banana Bract Mosaic Virus (BBMV), nematodes and borers. Top of page Desert Varieties Palayam kodan Special Features This is the most widely cultivated variety of banana in Kerala, very soft when fully ripe. It has a cooling effect on places of very hot and humid conditions. Top of page Red Banana/ Kappavazha Special Features It is known as’Kappa Vazha’ or chenkadali in Kerala. Kappa pazham is the reddish variety more costlier than the other ones. It is characterized by its red skin. Fairly large sized fruit turns its color from deep brown to dark red as it ripens. The edible part is very soft. Top of page Rasthali Special Features It is a medium tall variety and the Fruit is very tasty with a good aroma. Its unique fruit quality has made Rasthali popular and a highly prized cultivar for table purpose. It is easily identified by the yellowish green stem with brownish blotches reddish margin of the petiole and leaf sheath and a few persistent male flowers after the female flower phase. Bunch has five to seven hands and the Fruits are yellowish green throughout their development, but turn pale yellow to golden yellow after ripening. Remarks Longer crop duration, severe susceptibility to fusarium wilt. Requirement of bunch cover to protect fruits from sun cracking. Formation of hard lumps in fruits make crop production more expensive. Top of page Monthan Special Features Fruits are bold, stocky, knobbed and pale green in colour. The skin is usually green. Pseudostem core is a highly relished vegetable with various medicinal properties. Also cultivated for production of leaves. Remarks Immune to Banana Bunchy Top Virus (BBTV) diseases, salt tolerance and normal bunch mass even under marginal condition. Highly susceptible to Fusarium wilt disease. Top of page Nendran/ Ethakka Special Features Fruits have a distinct neck with thick green skin turning buff yellow on ripening. Fruits remain as starchy even on ripening. Remarks Highly susceptible to Banana Bract Mosaic Virus (BBMV), nematodes and borers. Top of page Safed Velchi Special Features Mostly grown as intercrop in coconut and arecanut garden. The plants are medium-sized with slender, yellowish pseudostem having reddish petiole margin. The fruits are small, firm-fleshed and sweet. Top of page Robusta Special Features It is also known as ‘Morris’. It is cultivated throughout Kerala. The banana that retains its green color even after ripening, it comes from a dwarf variety of banana plants. Top of page Dwarf Cavendish/Morris Special Features The plant stature is dwarf, making it less prone to wind damage. The bunch size, fruit length and size is quite good though the keeping quality is rather poor. Bunch has 6 - 7 hands. The thick rind of the fruits retains greenish colour to some extent and even when the fruits are ripe. Performs well under light soils with high inputs. In combination with high-density planting and drip irrigation,Dwarf Cavendish is becoming a highly successful cultivar. Remarks It is highly susceptible to Sigatoka leaf spot disease in humid tropics restricting its commercial cultivation. Top of page Karpooravalli Special Features Karpuravalli is a tall, robust plant well suited to marginal lands and soils produced under low input conditions. Karpuravalli is occasionally seeded depending upon the seasonal variability. Its ash coated golden yellow and sweet fruits have good keeping quality. Remarks Karpuravalli is highly susceptible to wilt disease, tolerant to leaf spot disease and well suited for drought and salt affected areas. Top of page Kathali Special Features Many varieties of Kathali are grown in Kerala. This is also very tasty and small sized fruit. Normally one bunch of fruit with 5-8 clusters, maximum of 85 fruits, weighing 7 - 9 kg. It is generally used as dessert and as an offering to Gods in Hindu Temples. It also have medicinal usage. Top of page Njalipoovan Special Features Njalipoovan is a popular shade‐loving tolerant variety that has a great demand among consumers due to its superior fruit quality and it is a delicious variety. It is more costlier than palayan kodan. Fruits are used more than the raw ones. The fruits are very sweet and soft with thin peel. But poor keeping quality and the fruits fall off bunches. It is particularly suitable for intercropping in coconut gardens both under rainfed and irrigated conditions. It is less susceptible to most of the pests and diseases and adapted to rainfed cultivation with ratooning. Top of page Kunnan Special Features It is a very common variety grown in Kerala. This is a dual purpose variety. Duration is about 16 months. Keeping quality is good. The fruits are used as Dessert and for making powder for infants as supplementary food. Each bunch of fruit has 7-9 hands weighing 11-17 lbs. Top of page Ayrinka Poovan Special Features An unstable bud variant of Rasthali. Varies from Rasthali only in that there are no male flowers so that the whole axis is covered with fruits. The fruits of the first 5 to 6 hands are same as those of Rasthali, while the rest differ only in size. Bunch 500 fruits, 25 kg. Crop duration 15 months. Top of page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System ` Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Planting Material SUCKERS SEED MICRO-PROPAGATED PLANTS MACRO-PROPAGED PLANTS Suckers In India, use of conventional suckers cannot be completely avoided because of some regional special varieties tissue culture technique is yet to be perfected. further for resource poor small scale growers the cost of tissue culture plants stills a hurdle in adoption. there are three types of planting material used for propagation namely, Suckers, Peepers,Rhizome. Natural regeneration of cultivated bananas through suckers is very slow due to hormone-mediated apical dominance of the mother plant. A plant produces only 5-20 suckers during its life time of 12-14 months. For accelerating the propagation rate, suckers with growing buds or cut rhizomes called ‘bits’ and peepers’ are used. Several good bits, each with a centrally placed germinating eye can be cut from an unbunched rhizome after trimming the roots. Selection of appropriate mother plant for raising new propagules either through in vivo or in vitro methods is important. About one kilogram uniformly sized rhizomes or bits, well-trimmed around the growing sprout are the best starting material. In some parts of India rhizomes are sun dried for 2-3 days after paring and pralinage treatment (trimmed of all roots, dipped in mud slurry and sprinkled with nematicide) and stored in shade for a week before planting. Selection of mother plants Mother plant should be healthy, true to type and free from diseases and pests,especially virus diseases. The male flowers buds should be retained to check the presence of virusdiseases (male flower buds exhibit symptoms of late infection of viruses like BBTV and BBrMV). Mother plants should be raised under roofless insect proof shade net withsufficient height. Mother nursery must be located away from other banana plantations with an isolation distance of 500 m to maintain purity and to avoid spread of virus diseases. Mother plants should be grown under very good management conditions so as to facilitate the true expression of traits. Individual plants should be tagged with a master code number so that the plantlets developed could be traced back to the mother plant. Pedigree record and source of each mother plant should be maintained and catalogued. Once indexed, the mother suckers can be maintained in field or concrete rings with frequent decapitation to facilitate production of more auxiliary buds. They also serve as explants for culture initiation. Suckers a) Sword Sucker A sucker next to but only superficially attach to the mother rhizome with broad leaves at an early stage. Water suckers produce inferior fruit (not healthy banana clump) and are therefore not recommended. b) Water sucker A sucker next to but only superficially attach to the mother rhizome with broad leaves at an early stage. Water suckers produce inferior fruit (not healthy banana clump) and are therefore not recommended. Peepers Peepers (very young suckers) produce late and poor crop. Four month old suckers and split rhizomes(each having about 2.0 Kg) produced heavier bunches compared with those obtained from peepers. Rhizomes Whole or split rhizomes can also be used when suckers are not available. Bits of rhizome of 2.0 Kg or more may be planted in the nursery for sprouting or directly sown in the main field. for quick multiplication of a variety rhizome bits may be used. Though the plants will require little longer time to fruit. Top of page Seed Wild banana fruit Seed Seed propagation is common in wild species which are diploid and undergo normal meiosis, fertilization and seed set. The extent of seed set, germinability and dormancy depends on the species. In Ensete, the only other genus of Musaceae, seed propagation is the only means of perpetuation since sucker production is absent. Seeds are generally brown to black in colour, 2-6 cm in diameter, round or triangular in shape, and mostly compressed in appearance. Fruits of wild species are inedible, being full of seeds that are enveloped in thin mucilaginous pulp In India, this propagation system is not followed because all cultivated commercial bananas are parthenocarpic. Top of page Micro-Propagated Plants Introduction Micropropogation is the practice of rapidly multiplying stock plant material to produce a large number of progeny plants under aseptic conditions, using modern plant tissue culture methods. Steps involved in the micro propagation of banana : Selection of pedigree mother plant. .Establishment and maintenance of mother block nursery. Selection of superior planting material for in vitro initiation. .Rouging at various stages of proliferation. Rooting, primary hardening and rouging. Secondary hardening and rouging off-types . Virus indexing and genetic fidelity testing at various stages of micro propagation. Tissue culture protocols Selection of superior initial planting material The sucker should be healthy and not less than 60-80 days of age.Growing meristem should be of 1.0 cubic cm in size. Micropropatation of Musa involves establishment of aseptic culture of shoot tips. This is achieved by disinfection,excision and incubation of explants. NaCl is the common disinfectant and the laboratory grade is normally used at concentrations ranging from 0.5-1.0%. If the explant is disinfected after excision a shorter treatment time (5 minutes).Sucrose is the most preferred carbon source used at a concentration of 2-4%(W/V).Vitamins, thiamine, Nicotinic acid and pyridoxine are frequently used. Amino acid glycine is being used as an imediate source of nitrogen cultured tissues.Commonly used reducing agents are ascorbic acid – citric acid (1.0 and 1.5% W/V respectively) which are used in various stages like disinfecting solution itself or after disinfection.Auxins and cytokinons are commonly used for rooting and shooting respectively. The widely used auxins are IAA, NAA and IBA. BAP is the cyotkinin of choice for in vitro shoot bud proliferation.Ph is usually maintained at 5.8, which is prone to changes over culture duration. The optimum incubation temperature should be between 24-26°C.Generally the light intensity maintained ranges from 1,500-3,000 lux.Higher levels of 3,000-10,000 lux during the later stages improve the survival rate of plant lets up on transfer to soil. Culture initiation Shoot cultures of banana start conventionally from any plant part that contains a shoot meristem, i.e. the parental pseudostem, small suckers, peepers and lateral buds. The apex of the inflorescence and axillary flower buds are also suitable explants for tissue culture initiation. Overall, it is important to select explant material from preferably mature individuals. For rapid in vitro multiplication of banana, shoot tips from young suckers of 40-100 cm height are most commonly used as explants. From the selected sucker a cube of tissue of about 1-2 cm³ containing the apical meristem is excised. This block of tissue is dipped in 70% ethanol, surface sterilized in a 2% sodium hypochlorite solution, and after 20 min rinsed three times for 10 min in sterile water. Subsequently a shoot tip of about 3 × 5 mm, consisting of the apical dome covered with several leaf primordia and a thin layer of corm tissue, is aseptically dissected. Larger explants have the merit of consisting of a shoot apex bearing more lateral buds which rapidly develop into shoots. The explant is then further reduced in size (0.5-1 mm length), leaving a meristematic dome with one or two leaf initials. Meristem cultures have the disadvantage that they may have a higher mortality rate and an initial slower growth. The explant is placed directly on a multiplication-inducing culture medium. For banana micropropagation, MS-based media are widely adopted. Generally, they are supplemented with sucrose as a carbon source at a concentration of 30-40 g/l. Banana tissue cultures often suffer from excessive blackening caused by oxidation of polyphenolic compounds released from wounded tissues. These undesirable exudates form a barrier round the tissue, preventing nutrient uptake and hindering growth. Therefore, during the first 4-6 weeks, fresh shoot-tips are transferred to new medium every 1-2 weeks. Alternatively, freshly initiated cultures can be kept in complete darkness for one week. Antioxidants, such as ascorbic acid or citric acid in concentrations ranging from 10-150 mg/l, are added to the growth medium to reduce blackening, or the explants are dipped in antioxidant solution (cysteine 50 mg/l) prior to their transfer to culture medium. Usually two types of growth regulators, a cytokinin and an auxin, are added to the banana growth medium. In most banana micropropagation systems, semi-solid media are used. As a gelling agent agar (5-8 g/l) is frequently added to the culture medium. Liquid media are superior for shoot multiplication, but for maximum plant production and survival ex vitro, one culture cycle on semi-solid medium is also needed. Culture proliferation First subculture is done after 4 weeks of inoculation.By this time, explants enlarge to about double the original size.The blackened surface is scraped off and corm base is reduced to 0.5cm thickness. Reducing the thickness of basal corm tissue decreases blackening,eventually chances of proliferation of non-meristamatic tissue outgrowing the meristamatic tissue.Any growing apical shoots, is cut to activate the axillary buds.By the end of first subculture shoots may be seen with 1-3 side buds. The blackened surface is scraped off, and vertical cuts given in subculture-I are extended till the corm base, so that four quardrants are obtained.By the end of second subculture cycle is repeated at 4 weeks interval to increase the proliferation rate. After 5-6 subculture cycles, the proliferated buds are put in a regeneration medium containing 1/10cycles, the proliferated buds are put in a regeneration medium containing 1/10th BAP.The shoots develops are then rooted in 1/2MS medium with IBA and activated charcoal.After a month, the rooted plants are ready for hardening. Hardening Micropropagated plants are delicate in nature as they are grown under artificial conditions of High humidity and optimum light intensity.Rooted shoots of 6-10cm tall with well ramified roots are washed free off agar medium and taken to the micropots containing soilrite and then shifted to growth tunnels for further establishment.After an appropriate period of hardening, the plants are taken out of the micorpots roots are dipped in a fungicidal solution to reduce the risk of damage by fungal diseses.Then repotted in a mixture containing 1:1:1:1 of soil:sand:soilrite and FYM. Once after repotting they are shifted under 75% shade nets where they are exposed to 60-70% RH slight intensity of 40-45 mol/m2/sec for about 10-12 days.Next stage , they are maintained at 50-60% RH and light intensity of 200 mol/m2/sec for about 10-15 days and at an intensity of 600 mol/m2/sec for another month.These plantlets are shifted to polybags containing 1:1:1 of sand :soil:FYM and maintained in green house (light intensity of 600-700 mol/m2/sec)until field planting.During primary and secondary hardening plants should be roughed for somaclonal variations. This could be for vegetative deformities,foliar deformities like variegation, rosette foliage others like dwarfism etc.Important points to be taken care during secondary hardening of TC plants are as follows: The rooting media should be 100 per cent free from pathogen. Water used for irrigating the plants should be free from pathogens and nematodes. Strict rouging by trained personnel should be done to remove the types once in 7 days Sample plants from each batch should be randomly virus indexed (atleast 10 plants from each batch/explants). While shifting of primary hardened plants, two longitudinal cuts of net pots should be given to facilitate further corm growth. Manuring and plant protection in nursery Plantlets should be 2-3 weeks old before any fertilizer application is taken up.100ml water containing 05.kg Urea, 2g Super phosphate and 1g Muriate of potash can be applied per plant.The manuring is repeated by doubling the dosage after three weeks. Spraying of commercially available micronutrient mixtures during sixth week would help in better establishment both in nursery and field.Sanitary measures are strictly adopted in the nursery to avoid the risk of damage by pests and diseases. Pest and diseases encountered during the process of hardening are to be given due attention at appropriate times especially foe soil borne nematodes and aphids which transmit BBTV.The maximum number of subculture cycles should be adhered to 7 or less to check off types to the minimum. Ideal tissue culture plant A well hardened plant should be minimum of 30 cm in height and should have a pseudostem circumference of 5.0-6.0 cm after 45-60 days of hardening. .The plant should have 5 photosynthetically active leaves and inter foliar space must be not less than 5.0 cm. The plant should have approximately 25-30 active roots at the end of secondary hardening stage. The length of active roots should be more than 15 cm with a good number of secondary roots. The poly bag should be size (20.0cm in length and 16 cm in diameter)with potting media filled to ¾ full of the bag. The media/potting mixture approximately should weight about 750-800g.On dry weight basis. Plantlets should be free from any visual symptoms of leaf spot, pseudostem rot and physical deformations. Plantlets should be free from the presence of root pathogens like Erwinia rot symptoms, nematode lesions and root knots.Random checking of roots is very essential at the time of procurement. Those exhibiting abnormal growth must be discarded. Management of pest and diseases during secondary hardening Erwinia head rot or Tip over disease The disease is widespread in banana growing areas of the world.The casual agent is Erwinia carotovora (Jones).This disease is also noticed in the secondary hardening stage of banana tissue culture production. Rotting of collar region is the commonest symptom this disease.The leaves of affected plant show epinasty and dry out suddenly.If the affected plant are pulled out, the plant topple from the collar region leaving the corms with their roots where as plants affected with nematodes cab be pulled out along with corm and roots.This is a distinguishable feature for soft rot disease. In early stage of infection dark brown or yellow, water soaked areas are visible in the cortex area.Drenching of tissue culture plants kept in polybags with 0.1% Emisson or 2% bleaching powder can control the disease. Parasitic nematodes infestation Banana tissue culture plants are highly susceptible to parasitic nematodes such as root knot nematode (Meloidogyne incognita), lesion nematode (Paratylenchus coffeae), burrowing nematode (Radopholus similes) and spiral nematode (Helicotylenchus multicinctus).These nematodes enter the plant roots through contaminated water or through the pot mixture used for hardening of tissue culture plants. The tender toots of affected tissue culture plant become weak and cannot absorb nutrients as the roots are damaged.In case of root-knot nematodes are predominantly present in the primary and secondary hardening stage of tissue culture plants. In case burrowing or lesion nematode infection, the roots exhibit extensive reddish brown lesions in the cortex can be seen when cut longitudinally.Use water, soil and other pot mixture material free of parasitic nematodes. Fumigated pot mixture can be used for secondary hardening.Application of 2-3gm of carbofuran per plant in the secondary hardening stage can protect against invading nematodes.Appliction of VAM or neem cake also would ensure vigour and health of the plants. Factors to select off-type production Off-type can arise at any time in culture. They may arise from stimulation of adventitious buds. Growth regulators don’t directly induce mutagenesis (their effect is indirect). Nursery screening procedures are available for rouging off-types. Cavendish types can be identified by morphological characters. Molecular markers can be used. Tissue culture Unit Infrastructure Lab Facilities Washing room. Media preparation room. Inoculation(room). Growth(room) Hardening Facilities Transfer area. Green house / shade area. Nursery Quality Control Selection of clones. .Explant. Virus indexing. Number of multiplication cycles. Overall quality of the plants. Technical Supervision and monitoring Monitoring of the production process and the staff involved there in. Technical competence of the production supervisory staff. Operators. Merits Rapidity in propagation and abundant availability. Uniformity of micro propagated plants for both genotypic and phenotypic characters. The plants produce higher yield, because the mother plants are selected from high yielding clones, hence the progenies tend to produce heavy and uniform bunches with uniform maturity. The TC plants are healthy in quality because they are free pests and pathogens. Easy to transport for longer distances with cheaper cost than the conventional suckers . Unlike suckers, the tissue culture plants can be produced any time in the year for planting in any agro ecological zones. Demerits Inability to lower high frequency of off-types in certain cultivars (Somaclonal Variants). Inability to deal with endogenous bacteria or bacteria-like contaminants contributing to significant losses in and immediately after, culture. Top of page Macro-Propagated Plants Importance of Macro propagation It can rapidly multiply plantlets to distribute a new variety or replace plants in disease-affected fields. It gives relatively healthy plants if source suckers are from healthy mother plants and contamination is minimized during the process. It can be done locally at low cost and with little training: a private person or a farmers’ organization can launch this activity. It can teach awareness of principles of plant health. Decapitation Macropropagation is an excellent option for producing low cost quality planting material.This is a simple method because of the ease of multiplication, saves cost of producing planting material and has the potential of producing 50-60 shoots per sucker in 4-5 months. Macropropagation is achieved by two methods and could be adopted either in the field conditions (in situ) or in the nursery (ex situ). It involves, decapitation, decortication and hardening.4-6 month old plant is headed back, the pseudostem is cut down and cross cuts/ incisions are made on the growing meristem so as to stimulate the production of lateral buds.This method results in the production of 9-15 uniform shoots per plant in a short span of time and is highly suitable for small and marginal farmers whose requirements of planting material are relatively small. Suckers of choice varieties can be maintained in a nursery either in sawdust bed or in a big, bottomless concrete pot.The initial planting material should preferably be certified as virus free and multiplied at farm level under an insect proof net house. Decortications The pseudostem of the mother corm or sword sucker is cut transversely 2 cm above the collar region and then the apical meristem is removed leaving a cavity of 2 cm diameter and 4 cm depth.Decapitation and decortication activate the lateral buds giving rise to more side shoots.Generally, the corms that have already flowered give better results than corms that have not yet flowered.Hence, healthy corms left in the field after harvesting are also a potential explant both for in situ and ex situ mass multiplication. Ex situ mass multiplication Sword suckers are pared partially (trimmed of all roots and the outer surface scraped) and the growing points are excised out with a sharp knife. These corms are surface sterilized by dipping in 0.3 % bavistin for 15 min, allowed to dry for a day and then planted in the initiation medium, usually comprising rice husk or sawdust, though the latter is much preferred.The initiation medium should essentially provide anchorage, moisture supply and proper aeration to the roots.Before use, the medium is moistened and decomposed for a period of 2-3 weeks to allow dissipation of the build up heat during decomposition.The medium could be enriched with sterilized vermicompost, biofertilizers and rooting hormones like IBA (2,500 ppm). 200 g of VAM/Azospirillum is mixed with 10 kg of vermicompost and 500 g of the foresaid mixture is applied per corm.This treatment induces the production of lateral buds through an enhancement in the population of Pseudomonas and Aspergillus species, while IBA induces rooting in the developing multiple shoots. Secondary decortications Development of multiple shoots After 30-35 days of first decortication, 3-4 buds emerge from the mother corm, depending on the variety.When the side shoots attain a height of 15-20 cm with 3-4 leaves, secondary phase decortication is done by heading back with a sharp knife followed by 3-4 transverse cuts.This encourages production of multiple shoots.Third phase decortication is again attempted after 20-25 days but with greater care as the shoot buds are located very close.Thus by the end of 140-150 days, a total of 50-60 shoots are produced from a single sucker. Hardening High humidity chamber Multiple Plantlets Detached plantlets The lateral sprouts of 8-10 cm length are shifted to pro-trays containing equal parts of cocopeat and vermiculite and after sufficient watering left in a shade net (70 % shade) at 80-90 % humidity.High humidity is achieved by intermittent misting.Sprouts are usually maintained in the pro-trays for a period of 15-20 days and then shifted to polythene bags of size 6’x 4’ and thickness of 120 gauge for secondary hardening.At this stage, the plants are maintained at 50 % shade and 40-50 % humidity.Watering is done on alternate days and the plants are ready for field planting in 30-45 days. In situ mass multiplication In situ production of suckers is induced chemically by pouring 4 ml of 40 ppm BAP into the decorticated cavity and covering the individual mats with a mixture containing equal parts of sandy loam and poultry manure to 5 cm above the ground level.Such chemical induction of lateral buds could be done on the first generation suckers and continued up to third generation suckers.This method leads to the production of 45-50 shoots in a short span months.The suckers are separated from the mother corm and subsequently rooted in sterile soil medium under intermittent misting. Top of page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Cultivation Practices SOIL FIELD PREPARATION RATOON CROP SPACING AND PLANTING HIGH DENSITY PLANTING CROPPING SYSTEM INTERCULTURAL OPERATION MAT SYSTEM DO's & DONT'S COST OF CULTIVATION CALENDAR OF OPERATIONS CONTINGENCY PROBLEMS Soil Soil Banana can grow from the poorest to the richest type of soil with varying success. The soil should be tested before banana cultivation The soil should have good drainage, adequate fertility and moisture. Deep, rich loamy and salty clay loam soil with pH between 6-7.5 is most preferred for banana cultivation. Ill drained, poorly aerated and nutritionally deficient soils are not suitable for banana. Extreme clayey, Sandy soil, Saline soil and Calcareous soil is not suitable for Banana cultivation. Avoided soil of low lying areas, very sandy & heavy black cotton with ill drainage. A soil that is not too acidic & not too alkaline, rich in organic material with high nitrogen content, adequate phosphorus level and plenty of potash are good for banana. Field Preparation Wetlands: no preparatory cultivation is needed Garden lands: 2-4 ploughings are required Padugai : one deep spade digging is needed Hill Banana: Cleaning the jungle and construction of contour stone walls before planting is required. Prior to planting banana, grow the green manuring crop like daincha, cowpea plough insist in the field.The selected field must be ploughed 4-6 times and allowed to weather for two weeks. Rotovator or harrow is used to break the clod and bring the soil to a fine tilt. During soil preparation basal dose of FYM (about 50 tonnes/ha. before last harrowing) is added and thoroughly mixed into the soil. The field is leveled by passing a blade harrow or laser leveler. Land Leveling through Laser Leveler is one such proven technology that is highly useful in conservation of irrigation water. Laser land leveling is leveling the field within certain degree of desired slope using a guided laser beam throughout the field. By using laser leveler, the land looks leveled even when the wide topographic variation exists, wide variability in crop yields at field, better distribution of water, saving the water, improvement in nutrient use efficiencies, option for precision farming, achieve higher crop productivity. A pit size of 45cm x 45cm x 45cm is normally required. The pits are to be refilled with topsoil mixed with 10 kg of FYM (well decomposed), 250 gm of Neem cake and 20 gm of carbofuron. In areas where nematode problem is prevalent, nematicides and fumigants are also added to pits before planting. Prepared pits are left to solar radiation helps in killing the harmful insects, is effective against soil borne diseases and aids aeration. In saline alkali soil where PH is above 8 Pit mixture is to be modified to incorporate organic matter. Addition of organic matter helps in reducing salinity while addition of purlite improves, porosity and aeration. Alternative to planting in pits is planting in furrows. Depnding on soil strata one can choose appropriate method as well as spacing and depth at which plant is required to be planted. In wetlands and hilly areas no land preparation is needed and pits are directly taken in the required spacing. For Hill Banana cultivation clean the jungle and construct contour stone walls before planting. Plough furrows may be formed length wise and breadth wise of the field at the required spacing and its intersection of the plough furrows pits of size 0.6m x 0.6m x 0.6m are dug sufficiently ahead at points fixed for planting. Mini Tractor Drawn Rotavator Disk Plough Rotavator Top of Page Ratoon Crop Bananas are perennials which produce succeeding generations of crops. The first cycle after planting is called the plant crop. The ratoon is the sucker (also called the follower) succeeding the harvested plant. The second cycle is called the first ratoon crop. The third cycle is the second ratoon crop, and so on. The growth cycle of Banana consists of two phases, Vegetative phase Reproductive phase The vegetative phase (or 'shooting') begins with the production of leaves by the planted tissue culture plant and ends when the inflorescence appearing at the top of the plant. The reproductive phase begins with the transition of the vegetative meristem into a floral shoot. The division of phases is arbitrary, and it takes normally about 7-8 months after planting before the inflorescence emerges at the top of the plant. The fruit filling period, that is,the time between flowering and harvest, completes the reproductiv ephase and the growth cycle. During the growth cycle, plants develop essentially three major components an underground corm, producing suckers and roots. a pseudo stem, consisting of encircling leaf sheaths and carrying the leaves. an inflorescence, containing female flowers that develop into fruits. The length of the growth cycle depends on the cultivar. Under the best growing conditions, the yield of the second cycle is higher than the yield of the first cycle. The mother plant and the ratoon are in competition for resources and ratooning is generally followed only in those areas where there is an assured source of irrigation.During the vegetative phase, most of the resources are directed to the growing mother plant. During flowering, ratoon development increases. Hence ratoon management or de-suckering becomes very important. As a rule, a follower is allowed only after the emergence of the inflorescence in the planted crop and the same package of practices are followed as that of the planted crop before allowing a follower for the second ratoon. Starting with a TC planting material that ensures uniform growth and early and uniform maturity, proper ratoon management (follower management) will result in yet another uniform ratoon crop. Thus it has been proved that in a span of 30 months (12 months for planted crop and 9 months each after harvest for the subsequent crops),three crops comprising of one planted crop and two ratoon crops can be harvested without reduction in yield. Ratoon Management Keeping the field and neighborhood free of weeds generally is advised to avoid spread of infestations. Though the TC plants, which are supplied are healthy and virus free, field contamination can be avoided only by keeping the generally field free of weeds.Ratoon management is important for sustained income.In a place like Theni, three ratoons have been done in 24-25 months. Once the flowers emerge and all the fruits have fully opened, the bunches are covered using a skirting bag which prevents the tender fruits from insect attack, besides maintaining uniform temperature inside.This is important for colour and fruit development. Top of page Spacing and planting Spacing Spacing for Hybrids Spacing for Tamil Nadu Varieties Spacing for Karnataka Varieties Spacing for Kerala Varieties Planting Planting can be done in May-June or in September - October. Single sucker is planted upright in small pits taken in the centre leaving 5 cm pseudostem above soil level. Soil is pressed around the sucker to avoid hollow air spaces. Tissue culture plants are planted on the top of the pit at ground level.Polye cover should be removed before planting without damaging the roots. Planting is followed by light irrigation. Partial shade should be provided immediately after planting. Banana can be planted throughout the year except in severe winter and during heavy rains when the soil remains very wet. The ideal time (October-November) of planting is after the monsoon season. With assured irrigation, the planting can also be done in February-March. Plant population depends on cultivars, topography and soil fertility. Apply 25 g Pseudomonas fluorescence / plant at the time of planting. Pre-treatment of suckers Trim the roots and decayed portion of the corm, cut the pseudostem leaving 20 cm from the corm and grade the suckers to size. To avoid wilt disease in Rasthali, Monthan, Virupakshi and other wilt susceptible varieties, infected portions of the corm may be pared and dipped for 5 minutes in 0.1% Emisan solution (1 g in 1 lit of water). Pralinage is done with 40 g of Carbofuran 3 G granules per sucker. (Dip the corm in slurry solution containing 4 parts clay plus 5 parts water and sprinkle Carbofuran to control nematodes). Alternatively, dip the corm with 0.75% Monocrotophos, shade dry for atleast 24 hours and plant. Use tissue cultured banana plants with 5-6 leaves. System of Planting Single row system In single row planting, the distance within the row is close, whereas the distance between the row is wide. This system allows good aeration to plant canopy, allowing wet leaves to dry more rapidly, reducing fungal disease severity. In this, less number of trees occupied in the field and yield will automatically reduced . Paired Row System In this method, the distance between the two lines is 0.90 to 1.20 m. while plant to plant distance is 1.2 to 2 m. Due to this spacing, intercultural operations can be carried out easily and cost of drip irrigation is decreased. Square System This is the most commonly followed system and is very easy to layout. Banana is mostly cultivated by adopting 1.8x1.8m spacing In this system, trees are planted on each comer of a square whatever may be the planting distance. The central place between four trees may be advantageously used to raise short lived filler trees. This system permits inter cropping and cultivation in two directions. Triangular System This system is best suited for tissue culture banana suckers. In this, adopt spacing in between rows was 1.5m and plant to plant was 1.8m in the row. The trees are planted as in square system but the difference being that those in the even numbered rows are midway between those in the odd rows instead of opposite to them. The distance between any two adjacent trees in a row is equal to the perpendicular distance between any two adjacent rows. When compared to square system, each tree occupies more area and hence it accommodates few trees per hectare than the square system. Method of planting Pit Method Furrow Method Trench Planting Pit Method Pit planting is commonly followed in garden land system of cultivation. Pits of 60 cm x 60 x 60 cm x 60 cm size are dug, filled with a mixture of soil, sand and FYM (Farm Yard Manure) in a 1:1:1 ratio. Suckers are planted in the centre of the pit and soil around is compacted. Planting is done from February to May whereas in North India, it is done during July-August. In South-India, it can be done any time of year except summer.This is mostly followed in biennial plantations for Dwarf Cavendish, Rasthali, Robusta, Poovan and Karpuravalli banana. However this method is very laborious and expensive. The only advantage is that no earthing up is required as planting is done at the required depth. This practice is not very popular at present. Pit Method Pit Method Pit Method Furrow Method In Gujarat and Maharashtra, furrow planting is practised. After land preparation, 30-40 cm deep furrows are made, either manually or with a ridger. Suckers are placed at required spacing; FYM is applied around, mixed with soil and tightly packed round the suckers. Furrow planting is practised in annual panting system. In this method earthing up needs to be frequently done to cover the exposed rhizomes. Furrow Method Furrow Method Furrow Method Trench Planting Trench planting is practised in wet land cultivation of Cauvery delta region of Tamil Nadu. Land is prepared like paddy using plenty of water and gauge wheel. Water is drained from the field allowing setting for a day. Planting is done by simple pressing the suckers into the wet field. After a week 15 cm deep trenches are opened both ways maintaining 4 or 6 plants in each block. Deepening of trenches by 20-25 cm is taken up every month after planting till suckers put forth 1-3 leaves. During third month trenches are broadened and deepened to 60 cm. in rainy season some trenches are used as drainage channels. After about 2 months, trenches are cleaned; decayed manure is used for plants for organic cycling. Trench Method Trench Method Trench Method Top of Page High Density Planting High Density Planting (HDP) is normally refers to planting at a spacing than the usual recommended spacing. Choosing the correct planting density is very important for bridging the gap between the actual yield and the potential yield of banana from a unit area. For the highest possible yields of good quality fruit, there is an optimum plant density, which should be maintained for sustaining the economic life of the plantation. This optimum varies with the location, cultivator, soil fertility, management level and economic considerations. These factors in turn influence more specific determinants of density choice such as prevailing climate, plantation vigour and its longevity. High Density High Density High Density Plant canopy and light intersection Unlike other fruits, the vegetative growth, flowering and fruit growth is not seasonal in banana and are largely influenced by time of planting, type and size of planting material and prevailing temperature. Planting density and their interception. Reduced light intensity at ground level with increase in size energy conversion efficiency was maximum in 1.2 x 1.2m spacing and minimum in 2.1 x 2.1m spacing. Light intersection Light intersection Plant height and girth Height of pseudostem is invariably increased with reduction in spacing. Plant height is adversely influenced, depending upon cultivators. Stem girth is reduced with height on increase in density. Girth of Robusta banana was not influenced by varying plant density although tallest plants were produced under closer spacing of 1.2 x 1.2 m. In poovan cultivar, palnt height was significantly increased and grith reduced when spacing was brought down from 2.1 x 2.2m to 1.5 x 1.8m. Plant height and girth Plant height and girth Leaf number and leaf area index Canopy characteristics such as leaf area index (LAI) and transmission of photosyntheically Active radiation (PAR) can be used to correlate with optimum density. Leaf emergence is reduced under very close planting owing to lower temperature inside the canopy since temperature had significant influence on rate of leaf emergence. Leaf number Leaf number Sucker production and root growth The number of suckers per plant was more in wider spacing compared to that in closer to that in closer spacing. The suckers per plant decreased with reduction in planting distance with reduction in planting distance in Robusta and Poovan. The length of fine roots increased with increase in plant density to shooting and declined thereafter. Sucker production and root growth Sucker production and root growth Weed growth High planting density (4440 to 6950 plants/ha) coupled with initial check on weed population through intercropping of cowpea caused reduction in weed growth. Under high density planting, at all stages of plant growth, weed growth was minimized and cowpea intercrop also improved the soil fertility besides suppressing weed growth. Weed Growth Flowering and fruit maturity Dwarf Cavendish banana required a minimum of 3.24m2 , which can be achieved by spacing at 1.8 x 1.8m or 2.7 x 1.2m. With plant densities of 1600 to 10000 per hectare by spacing from 1.0 x 1.1 to 2.0x2.0m, significant delay in flowering and fruit maturity. Flowering and fruit maturity Flowering and fruit maturity Bunch weight and quality Planting two plants per hole at spacing of 1.8 x 1.8m doubled the yield with little or no influence on bunch size and time of maturity on the plant crop in Dwarf Cavendish. In Robusta banana also, double planting increased returns. Bunch weight quality Fruit yield High density planting in banana enabled to achieve higher yields. High density planting coupled with practices like cowpea intercrop, timely irrigation and fertilization can bring phenomenal yield increase in Robusta banana without adverse effect on finger size and shape. Different planting densities fertilizer requirement under HDP system (Nalina, 1997) with planting of three and four suckers per pit at spacing of 1.8 x3.6 m. There were three NPK levels viz. 50,75 and 100% of the recommended doses. Fruit Yield Fruit Yield Diseases incidence Sigatoka leaf spot is increased under high density planting especially in high rainfall and coastal regions. Under North Karnataka conditions, wider spacing (2.4 x 2.4mm) resulted in less disease incidence during the second ratoon of Rajapuri banana, under Trichy conditions (Tamil Nadu) Sigatoka leaf disease was lesser in dense planting (3 suckers per hill) than in wide plantings, due to the adoption of wider spacings between hills and thus resulting in less relative humanity. In paired row planting, higher plantn densities increased the relative humidity, kept the leaf moisture longer and thus increased the incidence. Disease Incidence Disease Incidence Top of Page Cropping System Introduction Farmers around the world produce banana and plantain in different production systems. These represent farmer ingenuity, experimentation and tradition under particular soil and climatic conditions, but also their response to market opportunities. Although export fruit crops are a major source of jobs and currency, they are now often barely viable, in agronomic, economic or social terms. Monocultures often cause pollution and impoverish the environment. The markets are increasingly competitive and consumers increasingly demanding. the only likely solution is to switch from the conventional intensive monoculture systems to sustainable cropping systems. Homestead or backyard cultivation In traditional growing areas, homestead cultivation of banana is common. Homestead cultivation is traditional because of the ease in establishment, availability of area around farmhouse, minimum capital investment, ease monitoring and sharing of labour among family members.Homestead farming is characterized by improper spacing, inadequate use of fertilizer and pesticides, high productivity and longer crop duration.Homestead gardening is a traditional practice of multiple and mixed cropping in small holdings in Kerala. This farming system is a need based crop production system adjacent to adjacent homes of Keralites, which can be defined as the man made forest fitted to family needs. This is based on the subsistence need of his family, climate of the area, economic factors and dietary habits of the household. In general, perennial crops like coconut, jackfruit, timber yielding forest trees, arecanut, cashew etc. occupy the upper layer followed by mango, nutmeg, pepper, clove, cinnamon as the second layer. Banana, cassava, yam- like crops from the third layer in this man made forest while the ground layer is occupied by ginger, turmeric, pineapple and various types of vegetables. The home gardens of Kerala are often combined with livestock rearing which interact synergistically to sustain productivity. The common livestocks like cows, goats, buffalo and poultry when added to homestead will provide additional income for the families. Crop Rotation Crop rotation is the growing of two or more crops one after the other in the same piece of land. It is advantageous that the succeeding crop belongs to a family different from that of the previous crop. The period of crop rotation may be for two to three years or longer. Farm income significantly increased Better control of weeds Better control of pests and diseases It improves soil structure, soil fertility and organic matter content Banana may be rotated with paddy, sugarcane, pulses, vegetables etc Mixed cropping Mixed cropping is growing of two or more crops simultaneously on the same piece of land. It is also known as multiple cropping. This type of cropping leads to an improvement in the fertility of the soil and hence, increase in crop yield because when the two crops are properly chosen the products and refuse from one crop plant help in the growth of the other crop plant and vice-versa. Mixed cropping is an insurance against crop failure due to abnormal weather conditions.Banana is cultivated predominantly as a commercial shade crop for coffee on Palney and Shevaroy hills, contributing to income in the initial years. In mixed farming systems, bananas are used as a ground shade and nurse-crop for a range of shade crops including cocoa, coffee black pepper and nutmeg. In coastal areas of Karnataka, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, banana is grown in coconut and Arecanut plantations with tall varieties. Apart from these palm crops, banana plantations are intercropped with ginger, turmeric, elephant-foot yam, cotton, gourd and other vegetables to exploit maximum income/unit area. Mixed Cropping Mixed Cropping Multistorey System It is commonly followed in Coastal plantation of Karnataka and Kerala where crops with different Canopy level are Planted. High Density Planting with Coconut And Arecanut forming the Upperstorey followed by banana, next with tapioca and lower – most storey with Colocasia , Turmeric , ginger and Garlic.High input management is its important feature. Semi – Tall Banana Poovan And Ney Poovan are preferred in this system.In India banana cultivation/plantation can be seen as multi-storied plantation such as with turmeric and ginger on ground floor, elephant foot as first floor, Dioscoria as second floor and banana as third story crop. The limited flat land available in the state may hardly be practicable of such as intensive cropping. However, it is very much feasible to take turmeric or ginger or onion in between the rows of banana plantation enabling at least two dimensional cropping systems in the state. Multistorey System Multistorey System Top of Page Intercropping System Intercropping is the cultivation of two or more crops at the same time at the same field. Intercropping of bananas with other crops is also a common soil fertility improvement effort, which when it occurs, is sometimes a secondary benefit to the primary purpose of the practice. Intercropping in banana gardens with annual crops can be remunerative. Farmers with limited resources have traditionally multicropped their lands to minimise risks associated with growing a single crop and to ensure more stable subsistence in terms of food nutrition and possible income. Bananas are mostly grown by small and marginal farmers. With holdings less than a hectare, they can hardly be expected to raise a pure crop of banana. Intercropping Intercropping Intercropping TamilNadu Intercrop can easily be grown in banana plantation at the earlier stage of growth. In some parts of india,mixed cropping is also practiced. Planting of banana may be followed by planting of intercropslikebrinjal,colocasia,turmeric,chillies,bhendi,radish,cauliflower,cabbage,spinach,maize etc. depending on climatic conditions. Mixed cropping of banana,arecanut,coconut is a common practice along the coastal belts of Tamilnadu. Banana is grown as a shade plant for coffee,cocoa,rubber,young mango trees and orange in different parts of india. Karnataka Cucumber and amaranth can be cultivated profitably with banana raised in September-October without affecting the bunch weight. For vegetable purpose, cucumber may be harvested within 95 days and for seed purpose the duration may be about 130 days. Greater yam and elephant foot yam can be profitably intercropped with Nendran. Kerela Perennial crops such as coffee can be intercropped with bananas for the provision of shed especially at establishment. They also benefit the banana by recycling nutrients from deep capture, because of their rooting system, via litter fall. Bean is the annual crop most commonly associated with banana. The two crops are compatible in a multi-story system as bean does not compete with banana above ground and is more shade tolerant that most other food crops. Maize and sweet potatoes are intercropped with the young banana plants and are phased out at canopy closure. Fruit trees like jack fruit and papaya are established with the plantation as sources of fruit and to serve as windbreaks. Top of page Intercultural Operations ..... Desuckering ..... Propping ..... Mulching ..... Removal of withered styles and Perianth ..... Pruning of Leaves ..... Mattacking ..... Earthing up ..... Bunch Covering ..... Denavelling ..... Bunch Thinning ..... Peduncle Wrapping ..... Tagging ..... Wind Break Desuckering Removal of surplus and unwanted suckers from banana plant is known as desuckering. Suckers are removed from the mother either by cutting the sucker at ground level or by destroying the heart of the suckers without detaching the sucker from the plant. Desuckering can also achieved by pouring kerosene oil into the heart of the sucker. Under garden land and wet land cultivation, desuckering is done at monthly intervals. In hill banana ,two bearing plants and two suckers per clump areconsidered as the optimum condition and the rest are desuckered. Only one sucker is retained per plant and set for ratooning. Set suckers are headed back once at 2 month stage to arrest the apical growth and allow to enlarge the rhizome. At the time of harvest of the first crop, the set sucker will become ready for the next ratoon crop. Desuckering Desuckering Propping At the time of bunch emergence , pseudostem requires support from props. Tall varieties which produce heavy bunches need propping. Bamboo or casuarinas poles which have effective life of 3-4 years are commonly used for propping. Coir or polythene wire can also be used for propping. Propping Mulching Mulching is useful in conserving the soil moisture increasing the number of feeder roots and thereby improving the nutrient and water use efficiency suppression of weed growth and thereby enhances the banana yield by 30-40%. Mulching Mulching Removal of withered styles and Perianth Removal of dead leaves is practiced to reduce disease spread, to prevent senescent leaves from hanging over suckers and reducing light and to prevent fruit scarring. There should be atleast six to eight healthy leaves remaining on the plant at flowering ensures maximum bunch development. Plants with severe leaf removal or damge have bunch weight. The green life of the harvested banana is also reduced by leaf loss Removal of withered styles and Perianth Removal of withered styles and Perianth Pruning of Leaves In some varieties the styles are persistent and hencethey remain in bunch till maturity. They can be easily removed by a light brushing movement of the hand a few days after flowering and if it is delayed ,it is difficult to remove and later, they become brown and shriveled. This operation eliminates the removal of infection by saprophyte fungi especially to avoid the finger tip disease. Pruning of Leaves Pruning of Leaves Mattacking After harvesting, the pseudostem should be cut leaving a stump of about 0.6m height. This practice is called mattacking. The food material stored in the left out stump continues to nourish the daughter sucker till withers and dries up. Mattacking Mattacking Earthing up Earthing up is important which provides support to the base of the plant and also gives chances for the formation of a better root system. Earthing up should be done at rainy season for avoiding water logged conditions. It will also provide proper drainage facilities to the plant. Earthing Up Earthing Up Bunch Covering Covering bunches with gunny cloth or polythene protects the fruit from sunburn, hot wind and dust. Covering of bunches is practiced in Cavendish group and nendran bananas to get attractive colour. Perforated / polythene bags when used for bunch covering increased yield by 15-20 %. Peduncle of the bunch may be covered with the flag to prevent main stalk rot. Bunch Covering Bunch Covering Denavelling Removal of male bud after completion of female phase is known as denavelling. This checks the movement of photosynthates into the unwanted sink and promotes fruit development. Denavelling Denavelling Bunch Thinning One to two small bottom hands should be removed from the bunch in order to facilitate uniform bunch development. Keep only 7 to 8 hands. Bunch Thinning Bunch Thinning Peduncle Wrapping The peduncle is the main nutrient, photosynthate, water conducting bridge between the developing bunch and the plant. During bunch maturation period, due to bright sunshine, there are possibilities of scorching injury on peduncle. This will pave way for secondary infection by any fungi or bacteria. Once the peduncle gets affected, the nutrient, photosynthate and water flow from plant to developing bunch will be arrested and it will lead to immature ripening or immature falling of bunches. So during peak summer banana bunch peduncle exposed to scorching sun should be wrapped with flag leaf or banana leaf trashes. Peduncle Wrapping Peduncle Wrapping Tagging Bunch should be tagged with respect to the week of bunch emergence & covering. Tagging Tagging Wind Break Wind break like Shevri (Sesbania egyptifolia) can be raised along the border of field in East-West direction to avoid damage due to heavy & hot winds. Wind Break Top of Page MAT System A farmer begins a new field of banana or plantain by planting either suckers from another banana field or young plants produced by tissue culture. Each new stem produces only one bunch, but numerous lateral shoots that become the next generation of bunches each from its own stem. In time the lateral shoots produce their own lateral shoots which produce bunches, each from its own stem. The stem bearing the bunch is cut down when the bunch is harvested. The parent plant and the successive lateral shoots are referred to as a stool or mat. The sucker must be uprooted from an existing mat to reproduce the variety and, because of its bulk, transports poorly. Once farmers have acquired a new type, they can propagate it themselves and maintain its yield advantages for many years if the material is kept free of pests and diseases. How many leaves per stem? Each sucker or new plant has a growing point where the new leaves, flowers and fingers originate. This growing point can be found in the center of the corm just above ground level where the leaf sheaths are attached. The growing point produces between 30 to 50 leaves. Shorter cultivars are generally characterized by the production of fewer total leaves, while taller cultivars produce more total leaves before flowering. Within a cultivar, the total number of leaves is very similar from stem to stem and mat to mat. The first leaves are small and may even be hard to see. During early growth each leaf is bigger than the previous one. New leaves emerge from the center of older leaves. The leaf sheaths are tightly wrapped to form the trunk or pseudostem which becomes taller and taller during the first few months. New leaves develop above older leaves and a healthy plant may have between 10-15 active leaves at any one time. Once the plant has produced 30-50 leaves, the flower bud is formed. No more leaves can be produced after that. When the flower bud is formed, there are 11 leaves within the stem remaining to emerge. How fast does a stem produce a bunch? Under optimal growing conditions (temperature, water, light, nutrients, soil), a new leaf emerges every 6-8 days. If the plant has optimum conditions, the time from the first leaf to the last leaf will be 245 to 320 days (8 to 11 months). However, when we plant a sucker or a tissue culture plant, they already have produced some leaves. Small suckers have produced fewer leaves up to the point of planting, while larger suckers have produced more leaves and therefore produce fewer leaves after planting until flowering. Do all leaves emerge at the same interval? Under optimum conditions, the very first leaves emerge every four days and interval becomes progressively long until the last leaves to emerge take seven to 10 days for each leaf. Interval for leaf emergence under optimal conditions for Leaves 1-10 = 43 days Leaves 11-20 = 54 days Leaves 21-30 = 65 days Leaves 31-40 = 76 days Total days = 238 days (8 months) Days per leaf = 6 days How long from one generations of bunches to the next? This is an important factor in field productivity, since it strongly influences the time interval between the first generation of bunches and the next generation of bunches. In some types of Musa such as plantain, lateral buds are released for growth when the flower bud is initiated in the parent corm. Remember that we said that 11 leaves remain with the stem to emerge when the flower is initiated. Since this is the moment when lateral shoot growth begins, this means that overlap between the growth of the parent stem and the growth of the next generation, called the ratoon crop, is the time for the emergence of 11 leaves and the time for bunch formation. As a result, the interval from the harvest of the first bunch and the harvest of the second bunch may be as short as 180 days (6 months). In other cultivars, the production of new lateral shoots is not closely linked to flower initiation. Lateral shoots may be produced before flower initiation and continue afterwards. Lateral shoots are not usually produced on a parent after its bunch has emerged from the top of the pseudostem. How do the roots grow? The root system is equally important for productivity. Bananas and plantains have a root system made up of many, many roots arising from the corm. These cord roots emerge from interior layers of the corm. Secondary roots are much thinner than the primary cord roots. If the growing tip is damaged or cut, lateral root formation can compensate. However, if damage occurs more than 20 cm from the tip, growth ceases and the root even loses the potential to generate secondary roots. When a sucker is planted, roots already initiated emerge in a first flush and may reach 40 cm before leaves begin to emerge. The next flush of roots is delayed for several weeks. A cord root grows up to 2 cm per day. Once flowering is initiated, new root emergence from the corm stops, although existing roots continue to function. The root system of the mat consists of the roots from the mother stem and the roots being formed by the lateral shoots. Most roots are concentrated in a zone 60 – 100 cm from the base, but often extend beyond 2 meters. Are bigger bunches enough? Of equal importance is the number of bunches produced in a given area of land over a given period of time. In addition, we need to know how many plants there are per land area. We also need to know the rate of production. The rate of production depends on the total leaves which a stem produces, the rate of leaf production and the point in the parent plant cycle when the lateral shoot is produced. Some of these factors depend on cultivar, while others are influenced by growing conditions. Top of page Do’s and Don’ts in banana cultivation In taking suckers from mother plants, gently separate the sucker from the other plant by using a spade or an iron bar to break the tissue that connects the sucker from the mother plant. This "tissue" is found at the sucker's corm. The sucker may survive this "separation" but make sure that the sucker already has its own root system. In some cases, the mother plant is planted deep and sucker separation is often difficult. Avoid over watering. Over watering will result in corm rotting and dying. When it comes to desuckering dwarf bananas, do not be confused. The very first or the second leaf of the emerging sucker should be narrow, not wide. Most bananas require at least 20 months without freezing producing fruit. Take care while transplanting/desuckering the mother plant. If this is done incorrectly, the mother or the sucker will die. The "Banana Bunchy Top Virus" is one of the most dangerous plant diseases.[8] Once infected, even a single sucker, all the plants that are connected (including the mother plant and all its suckers) will be infected and all the plants are stunted. The virus is spread by a banana pest called "Banana Aphid" (Pentalonia Nigronervosa). These pests are slow and live in colonies and they can transmit the disease in hours. If the newly planted banana is accidentally damaged (e.g. hit by ball) or if the plant is growing weak, but the plant is still alive, simply cut the plant in half. The banana plant will regrow. If you want your bananas to grow organically, don't add chemical fertilizer. Apply compost and/or any organic fertilizer. It is be advisable to cut off the main flower as soon as the bananas start to sprout. This will lead to healthier and more bigger bananas, as the nutrients that would have been used for the main flower will now be utilized in nourishing the actual fruit. Wear old clothes before cutting any part of the banana plant because the sap causes black patches that are very hard to wash out. Avoid taking and planting diseased plants from diseased mother plants. In areas where Banana Bunchy Top exists, do not share banana suckers with friends. Only buy plants from retailers who can assure the plant is disease-free. It may not be obvious that a plant has Banana Bunchy Top so ensure you don't share plants. Irrigation of the plantation should be stopped well in time, preferably a week ahead of the harvest date in order to facilitate efficient movement of labour, harvesting, loading, etc. Erection of temporary shades near banana fields is highly recommended so as to store the goods properly Application of fungicidal paste should be carried out under the shade in order to protect the produce from insects and other infections Bunches selected should be green, three-fourths ripe, whole, free from rubbing, scratching, bruises, sunburns or other blemishes. Bunches having malformed fingers, octopus-shaped hands, broken, torn or split fingers, etc. should be rejected. The bunch should be cut in one stroke 20 cm to 25 cm above the first band or 7.5 cm to 10 cm from the tip of the fingers of the first hand. For carrying bunches to packing shed it is necessary that after 15 minutes of harvest, when the latex flow ceases, the bunches should be taken two at a time on stretchers and should not be allowed to come into contact with soil. Top of page Do’s and Don’ts in Tissue Culture Banana Cultivation No Parameters Do’s Don’ts 1. Study the cultivation practices pamphlet in detail for information and recommendations. 2. Soil testing It’s essential to understand the status of major and minor elements for their deficiency / excessiveness and presence of pathogenic fungi / bacteria / nematodes. Don’t cultivate Banana in nutrient deficient and nematode infested field. 3. Soil type Sandy loam soil organically rich with pH 6.0 – 7.5 and having good drainage. Soils exceeding pH 7.5 are not suitable. Addition of decomposed press mud & organic manuring will reduce alkalinity. 4. Field Manuring Green manuring followed by dung manuring is very useful for soil conditioning. Try to avoid planting of banana in the field devoid of organic matter. 5. Wind shield Always put a wind shield all around the field preferably of Sesbania ( Dhaincha or crotalaria juncea (Sunhemp) plants for maintaining humidity and high velocity wind control. Don’t plant banana plants in the field without wind shield. 6. Planting Use Thimet, Furadon and neem cake powder in the pits before planting. Avoid planting during cold weather (below 150 C), extreme summer (above 400C) or heavy rainy days. Don’t plant Banana plants in the field without application of insecticides and neem cake powder in the pits. 7. Spacing For Grand Nain 6 feet x 5 feet spacing has proved ideal. Even 6 feet x 6 feet, 7 feet x 5 feet could also be used considering climate & soil conditions. Lesser spacing i.e 5 feet x 5 feet or still lower is not advisable for Grand Nain. 8. Surrounding cultivation Remove the cucurbitaceous plants such as Smoothguard, Riderguard, Ashguard, Cucumber, Pumpkin etc., Solanaceous plants such as Brinjal, Tomato, Chili etc. Legume crops such as Beans, Moong etc and virus susceptible weeds from the surrounding of the Banana field because these are hosts for viruses. Various aphids, mealy bags and insects acts as vector in spreading viral diseases in Banana. Don’t cultivate plants of the said families and don’t allow virus susceptible weeds to grow in the neighbourhood of Banana plot. Try to refrain Sugarcane and Citrus planted fields in the neighbourhood of Banana plot and also the planting of T.C Banana in Sugarcane fields (previous crop in the field) 9. Pesticides sprays Continue intermittent foliar sprays of insecticides, fungicides and soil application of pesticides right from the initial establishment of plants in the field to keep the aphids and insects away. Don’t be irregular in spraying of insecticides otherwise the crop may be affected. 10. Removal of infected plants Uproot the diseased (Virus or other) plants along with the suckers and roots, burn them outside the field. Don’t leave any virus infected plant growing in the field otherwise that will serve as an inoculums for the spread of disease. 11. Irrigation & Fertigation Always prefer for drip irrigation system and apply liquid fertilizer for better growth of plants. Do optimum irrigation. Apply additional quantity of water during winters to avoid injury from chilled weather. Don’t go for flood irrigation and application of chemical fertilizers from above. Don’t let the field dry in cold weather during weather. 12. Cultural practices Strictly follow the cultural practices recommended by the company because these have been developed after intensive trials Do not follow cultural practices other than recommended by the company. 13. Initial care of plants Extreme care must be taken for initial three months of planting regarding irrigation, fertigation & pesticides sprays otherwise yield will be affected. Continue the fertigation schedule without fail. Don’t let shortage of fertilizers, pesticides and irrigation for at least initial three to four months of planting. 14. Desuckering Keep desuckering on, right from the establishment of plant till harvesting. Don’t allow clusters of baby shoots growing all around the mother plants. It will weaken them and reduce the yield to a high extent. 15. Weeding Make weeds removal as a routine practice and keep the field clean in and around. Weeds should not be allowed to grow in and around the Banana field. 16. Propping Prop suitably the plants bearing heavy bunches. Do not leave plants without prop bearing heavy bunches. 17. Bunch Protection Protect the bunches from heat by dry leaf cover and from insects & pests by skirting polybag. Don’t leave the bunches uncovered. 18. Harvesting Harvest the bunch and give a top cut to the plant leaving the Pseudostem as such so that the nutrients in it leach down and are available to young plant left for first ratoon (if to be taken). Don’t cut the Pseudostem from base as it is a common practice of the farmers. 19. Agronomist help In case of any problem please contact our authorized Agronomist or our dealer in your area. Do not consult any other person for the hi-tech cultivation practices. Top of page Cost of cultivation Details of operations (Expenditure in Rs.) Main crop I Ratoon II Ratoon Land preparation (Deep ploughing & harrowing) 1000 - - Digging pits 6000 - - Manures and chemicals 4500 - - Fertilisers and transport 22,000 11,000 11,000 Planting cost 2,000 - 2,000 Irrigation expenses 500 300 300 Chemicals for foliar spray+Transportation 3,000 1,500 1,500 Plant protection chemicals 2,500 1,250 1,250 Stakes and staking 6,000 - - Intercultivation 2,000 1,500 1,500 Labour charges for 365 man days (Rs 30/labour) 10,950 6,500 6,500 Harvestin, Loading & unloading + Transportation 5,000 4,500 5,000 Sub Total 86,450 26,550 50,050 Misc. expenses at 5% of A 4,322 1,328 2,503 Cost of cultivation 90,772 27,878 52,553 Crop insurance @5% 4,538 1,394 2,628 Total cost 95,310 29,272 55,181 Crop returns per acre 2003 x 20 x 4.00 plants x yield/plant x cost = Rs. 1,60,240 2003 x 15 x 4.00 plants x yield/plant x cost =Rs.1,20,180 2003 x 20x 4.00 plants x yield/plant x cost = Rs. 1,60,240 Deducting 10% amount in crop returns keeping in account mortality, yield variation, improper management 1,60,240 - 32,048 --------------- 1,28,192 1,44,216 - 24,036 ------------- 96,144 1,60,240 - 32,048 ----------- 1,28,192 Total returns per acre/two years = Rs.1,28,192+96,144+ 1,28,192 = 3,52,528 - P Total cost = Rs 1,06,747+29,272+55,181 ==1,91,200 - C Profit (P-C) = 3,52,528-1,91,200 =1,61,328 Comparison of Economics of Conventional and Tissue Culture Banana Cultivation Top of page Calender of Operations During First month The soil around the plants should be pressed firmly for better and quick establishment of the plants. Wherever necessary, ‘Gap Filling’ should be done to replace the un- sprouted as well as rotten suckers. Seeds of green manure crops viz., cowpea or sunnhemp are sown. For additional income and also for effective land use efficiency, short duration crops such as onion, green gram, black gram, beans, radish, greens, marigold and short duration vegetables can be grown as intercrop. Tomato, chilly and cucurbits should not be grown as intercrop since these crops harbour nematodes and aphids, which act as vector of virus spread. Second Month Green manures viz., cowpea or sunnhemp should be ploughed back in to the soil at flowering stage or about 40 days after sowing. Slight digging and earthing up to keep the weeds under control. For Fusarium wilt susceptible varieties like Rasthali, Karpuravalli, Ney Poovan, Monthan and Pachanadan, drench the soil around the plant with 0.2% Carbendazim as a prophylactic measure, or Apply 30g Trichoderma viride or Pseudomonas flourescense along with FYM/compost 1 kg in the soil around the plant as a prophylactic measure for the control of wilt disease. Third Month Application of 40g of Carbofuron to control nematodes. Digging and weeding. Application of first dose of fertilizers @ 100:300:100 g Urea, Super Phosphate and MOP per plant in basins made about 30 cm away from the plant. Fourth Month Application of Azospirillum and phosphobacteria @ 30 g and Trichoderma viride @ 30g along with 5-10 kg FYM plant-1. There should a gap of minimum 2-3 weeks between the application of chemical fertilizers and biofertilizers. Periodical removal of side suckers by cutting them above the ground level and pouring 2 ml kerosene at the central core of the sucker. If any virus affected plants are noticed in the field, remove and destroy it immediately and spray with any systemic insecticide to kill the insect vectors which spread the virus. Fifth Month Application of second dose of fertilizers @ 150:150 g Urea and MOP+ 300g neemcake per plant in the basins made about 45 cm away from the plant. Removal of dried leaves. Digging and weeding. To cater the micronutrient need of the plant and to correct their deficiency, apply 50g agricultural lime and 25g magnesium sulphate per plant. For Fusarium wilt susceptible varieties like Rasthali, Karpuravalli, Ney Poovan, Monthan and Pachanadan drench the soil around the plant with 0.2% Carbendazim as a prophylactic measure. To prevent the egg laying and further attack of stem weevil, spray ‘Neemosol’ @12.5ml/litre or Chlorpyriphos @ 2.5ml/litre on the stem especially in Nendran, Red Banana, Karpuravalli and Monthan varieties. To monitor the corm and stem weevil, 2 ft long longitudinal stem trap @40 traps/acre can be placed at different places. The collected weevils are to be killed using kerosene. Keep the Banana fields as well as surrounding areas weed free and spray systemic insecticides to control the insect vectors. Sixth Month Digging and earthing up of soil around the plant. Removal of the dried and diseased leaves and spraying of 0.1% Propiconazol (TILT) by thoroughly covering both the surfaces adding wetting agent with the spray fluid especially during winter and cool months for control of Sigatoka leaf spot diseases. Yellowing of leaves which is a symptom of iron deficiency, spray 0.5% ferrous sulphate + 1.0% urea added with wetting agent on the leaves especially in high pH >8.5 and Calcareous soils. To correct the deficiency of zinc, spray 0.5% zinc sulphate solution along with wetting agent. Foliar application of 0.5 Borax is recommended to correct the deficiency. Apply 30g Trichoderma viride or Pseudomonas flourescense in the soil around the plant as a prophylactic measure to control the wilt disease. For controlling the stem weevil attack, using ‘Banana Injector’, inject 2ml of Monocrotophos (150 ml Monocrotophos mixed in 350 ml of water) at 2 and 4 feet height on opposite direction. Seventh Month Application of third dose of fertilizers @ 150:150 g Urea and MOP per plant in the basins made about 60 cm away from the plant. Removal of the dried and diseased leaves and spraying of 0.1% Carbendazim or Calixin by thoroughly covering both the surfaces along with wetting agent. Periodical removal of side suckers by cutting them above the ground level, scoop the core and pour 2 ml kerosene in the core. Injection of 2ml of Monocrotophos using ‘Banana Injector’ at 2 and 4 feet height for the control of stem weevil. Eighth Month After flowering, only one healthy side sucker should be allowed for first ratoon and the remaining suckers should be killed using kerosene or uprooted. Spraying of 0.1% Indofil by thoroughly covering both the surfaces. After the emergence of the last hand, the male bud has to be removed leaving about 15 cm stalk from the last hand. To prevent ‘cigar end rot’ disease, remove the pistil and perianth carefully from the fully emerged fingers and spray the bunch with Indofil M-45 @ 2.5 ml/litre. Spray 2% Potassium Sulphate (20g/litre of water) solution with surfactant by thoroughly drenching the bunch and cover the bunch with 100 gauge thick white or blue polythene sleeves having 6%ventilation. Ninth Month: Thirty days after the first spray, give a second spray of 2% Potassium Sulphate (20g/litre of water) solution with surfactant by thoroughly drenching the bunch. Provide casuarina pole or bamboo support to the plants for tall and heavy bearing bunches. Top of page Contingency Problems Overcoming soil sodicity problem in Banana Due to salinity and sodicity of soil, the Banana plants may suffer from marginal chlorosis and necrosis of older leaves, lesser proliferation of roots and an yield reduction by about 30%. This problem may be rectified by applying 0.5 kg of gypsum + 15 kg of FYM along with 120 % recommended potassium per plant. The water drainage facility of the land should be improved to leach down the excess sodium and salts. Overcoming flood damage in Banana Open deep trenches between the plant rows for improving the drainage condition of the land. Give foliar spray of 2% potassium sulphate. After 15 days, give another foliar spray of 1% potassium nitrate. At the bunch development stage, give 2% potassium sulphate spray on bunch, two times with 15 day interval. During flood, the possibility of outbreak of Sigatoka leaf spot is more. As a prophylactic measure, give 0.1 per cent Propiconozole, 0.2 per cent Carbendazim and 0.25 per cent Mancozeb foliar sprays with 15 day intervals between each spray. Overcoming wind damage in Banana Banana crop cannot tolerate the wind speed of even 30 km/hr. Banana being a shallow rooted crop requires proper propping with bamboo or casurina poles to avoid lodging during windy seasons. The supporting poles should be tied against the peduncle of developing bunches, so that it protects the plant from lodging during windy seasons and bears whole weight of developing bunch. Overcoming the stem weevil problem The appearance of small holes and oozing out of gummy substances and fecal matter reveals the presence of stem weevil damage in Banana. Give Monochrotophos (150ml monochrotophos + 350ml water) injection. If ratooning is adopted, remove and destroy the mother plants after bunch harvest. Overcoming the chilling injury during winter Banana growing regions, where the night temperature is below 5oC during winter, protection of bunches with 100 gauge polythene sleeves of 6% ventilation is very essential. Overcoming the Erwinia rot During summer, high soil temperature injures the pseudostem tissues, which are in touch with soil. Through these injuries, Erwinia bacteria may enter the plant and cause rotting. To avoid this, drench the soil around the plant with 2% bleaching powder solution. Overcoming the Wilt disease The varieties like Karpuravalli, Rasthali, Ney Poovan and Monthan are susceptible to Panama Wilt. The soil around the wilt-affected plant should be drenched with 2% carbendazim solution. Or cabendazim filled gelatin capsule should be applied into the corm. The affected plant should be uprooted and destroyed out of the field. After uprooting, about 3kg of lime should be applied to the soil. The implements used in affected plants should be disinfected by spirit before using them in healthy plants. Contingency plan against natural calamities - Drought The water scarcity situation during summer months could be overcome by adopting drip irrigation. Use of plant waste mulches viz., Banana leaf mulches, sugarcane trashes, paddy straw mulches around the plants conserves soil moisture and also promotes production of more feeder roots. Protecting the peduncle from sun scorching The fruit peduncle on exposure to sunlight suffers from sun scorching, which subsequently makes entry for pathogens that leads to rottig, poor uneven finger filling and ultimately breaking of the peduncle along with the bunch. Hence, the peducle should be fully covered using the 'boot leaf' that emerges just before the bunch. Propping / giving mechanical support to the plants against the wind By giving 'Double pole support' using bamboo or casuarina poles, the plants can be protected from uprooting by heavy winds during the hot months (April/May) or during summer showers locally called as 'Chiththirai chuli' and during monsoon winds. Top of page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Irrigation Management Irrigation Management Drip Irrigation Installation Water Requirement Cost of Cultivation Problems and Remedies Fertigation Fertigation Equipments Irrigation Management The total water requirement of banana plants is about 900-1200 mm for its entire life cycle and this can be met both through natural precipitation (rainfall) as well as supplementary irrigation. Maintaining optimum moisture at all stages of growth is very critical and providing good drainage facility to drain out excess water from the root zone equally important to promote better growth and enhance the productivity. In general, irrigation of the banana plantations every 3- 4 days during hot period and at 7-8 days interval during cool weather is recommended. In banana plantations different systems of irrigation is in practice and each system has its own merits and demerits. They are Flood or Furrow irrigation, Trench irrigation, Drip Irrigation and Fertigation. Flood or Furrow irrigation is the most common method of irrigation under garden land cultivation. In this system the water consumption is very high and is costly, with uneven distribution of water and fertilizers. There is a chance for fast spread of nematodes Trench irrigation is a popular method of irrigation under wet land system of cultivation where in the water is allowed to stand in the trenches opened between every two rows of plants and the same is used for draining out the excess water during rainy days. Top of page Drip Irrigation Drip irrigation is the method of applying uniform and precise amount of water directly to the root zone of the plants as per the requirement,through emitters at frequent intervals over a long period of time,via a low-pressure pipe network comprising of mains,submains and laterals. In this system water is applied drop by drop or by micro jet,on the soil surface or below it(sub-surfece),at a rate lower than the infiltration of the soil. Principles: Drip irrigation is the most scientific method of irrigation which has the following features: Water is applied at a low rate to maintain optimum air-water balance within the root zone. Water is applied overt a long period of time drop by drop. Water is applied daily at frequent intervals as per the water requirement of plants. Water is applied via a low pressure piping system. Water is supplied to the plants and not to the entire field. The soil moisture content is always maintained at ‘Field Capacity’ of the soil and hence the crops grow at a faster rate consistently and uniformly. Top of page Components Head Equipments Water source subsurface tank Pump Filters Distribution System Mainline Submains Laterals Emitters / Drippers Head Equipments Water source subsurface tank : To minimise the energy requirement and also to get a uniform or constant level of water in the effective hydraulic drip irrigation system, it is necessary to construct a subsurface tank in an elevation point at the centre. The capacity of the tank is calculated from the water requirement of the crop, dripper capacity, type of soil etc. Pump: Pump/Overhead Tank is required to provide sufficient pressure in the system. Centrifugalpumps are generally used for low pressure trickle systems. Filters 1) Gravel or Media Filter: Media filters consist of fine gravel or coarse quartz sand, of selected sizes (usually 1.5 – 4 mm in diameter) free of calcium carbonate placed in a cylindrical tank. These filters are effective in removing light suspended materials, such as algae and other organic materials, fine sand and silt particles. 2) Screen Filters: Screen filters are always installed for final filtration as an additional safeguard against clogging. While majority of impurities are filtered by sand filter, minutes and particles and other small impurities pass through it. The screen filter, containing screen strainer, which filters physical impurities and allows only clean water to enter into the micro irrigationsystem. 3) Centrifugal filters Centrifugal filters are effective in filtering sand, fine gravel and other high density materials from well or river water. Water is introduced tangentially at the of a cone and creates a circular motion resulting in a centrifugal force, which throws the heavy suspended particles against the walls. The separated particles are collected in the narrow collecting vessel at the bottom. 4) Disk Filters Disk filter contains stacks of grooved, ring shaped disks that capture debris and are very effective in the filtration of organic material and algae. During the filtration mode, the disks are pressed together. There is an angle in the alignment of two adjacent disks, resulting in cavities of varying size and partly turbulent flow. The sizes of the groove determine the filtration grade. Disk filters are available in a wide size range (25 - 400 microns). Back flushing can clean disk filters. Distribution System: Mainline The mainline transports water within the field and distribute to submains. Mainline is made of rigid PVC and High Density Polyethylene(HDPE). Pipelines of 65 mm diameter and above with a pressure rating 4 to 6 kg/cm2 are used for main pipes. Submains: Submains distribute water evenly to a number of lateral lines. For sub main pipes, rigid PVC, HDPE or LDPE (Low Density Polyethylene) of diameter ranging from 32 mm to 75 mm having pressure rating of 2.5 kg/cm2 are used. Laterals : Laterals distribute the water uniformly along their length by means of drippers or emitters. These are normally manufactured from LDPE and LLDPE. Generally pipes having 10, 12 and 16 mm internal diameter with wall thickness varying from 1 to 3 mm are used as laterals. Emitters / Drippers: They function as energy dissipaters, reducing the inlet pressure head (0.5 to 1.5 atmospheres) to zero atmospheres at the outlet. The commonly used drippers are online pressure compensating or online non-pressure compensating, in-line dripper, adjustable discharge type drippers, vortex type drippers and micro tubing of 1 to 4 mm diameter. These are manufactured from Poly- propylene or LLDPE. Top of page Installation Installation of Head Equipments The following points should be considered for fixing the position of filtern station Minimum use of fitting such as elbows and bends to be made. Whether the pump delivery can be connected to the sand / screen filter Sand / screen filter can easily be connected to mainline Arrangement of back-wash to be made as per the farmer's suitability Arrangement of by-pass water to be made. Sufficient space to be provided for the easy operation of filter valves Hard surface or cement concrete foundation to be made for sand filter so that it will not collapse due to vibration and load. For screen filter provide strong support by using GI fittings to avoid its vibrations due to load. Use hold-tight over the threads of GI fittings and apply proper mixture of M-seal over the joints uniformly to avoid leakage Fix the pressure gauges in inlet and outlet of the filter. Avoid direct linking of oil pump delivery and filter. Instead connect the filter to the pump delivery using flanges or even the hose pipe can be used for this. Connecting Mains And Sub mains: It should be laid at a depth of more than 30 - 45 cm so as to avoid damages during intercultivation Remove mud, if any, in the pipes before fitting. These pipes can be fitted using solvent cement with the help of brush A gunmetal gate valve / PP Ball valve is provided at the start of sub main with PVC MTA fittings for connecting the valve in the PVC sub main Provide flush valve at the end of main and sub main such that it faces towards slope Apply uniform pressure vertically over the drill while drilling in the sub main so that the hole will be smooth and round. Fix the rubber grommets in the holes made in the sub main in such a way that the groove in it goes inside the pipe Fix the take-off position such that its arrow or the chamber faces towards the gate valve of the sub main for the easy flow of water. See that the take-off is fixed tightly in the grommet. The loose fitting of take- indicates the breakage of grommet Get the sub main flushed so that the PVC piece / mud fallen in the sub main while making drill will get flushed. Otherwise this scrap will block the drippers through polytube. Laying of Laterals and drippers: Pass water through the poly tube and get it flushed so that it gets bulged and makes easy for punching Punch the lateral sideway from the yellow strip The dripper position should be fixed according to design, soil and water report and water level in peak summer If two drippers are to be provided such that all the drippers come in a straight line Do not fix drippers unless a complete lateral line is punched. Otherwise the placement of drippers will be changed if moved Punching should be done from the sub main While fixing the dripper, push it inside the lateral and pull it slightly Close the end of lateral by fitting end cap. Water Requirement Month Water Req. Lit/Day/Plant Month Water Req. Lit/Day/Plant June 5-6 October 4-6 July 4-5 November 4-6 August 5-6 December 4-6 September 6-8 January 8-10 October 10-12 Febraury 10-12 November 8-10 March 16-18 December 6-8 April 18-20 January 10-12 May 20-22 Febraury 12-14 June 20-22 March 16-18 July 10-12 April 20-22 August 12-14 May 25-30 September 14-16 Cost of Cultivation Area 1 ha, planting geometry:2m*2m Fixed cost of drip system Rs.60,700 Area interest rate 10.5% Life of system 7.5 years Annual cost of drip Rs.17,456 Cost of cultivation Rs.30,000 Expected yield 47 t/ha Expected benefit cost ratio 4.5 12 mm Lateral Pipe - Rs. 3.75/m. 16 mm Lateral Pipe - Rs. 5.80/m. 2 inch Pipe - Rs. 186.00/ 6 m. 1 ¼ inch Pipe - Rs. 112.00/ 6 m. 12 mm start, washer and end cap - Rs. 4.50/ 1 set. 16 mm start, washer and end cap - Rs. 6.80/ 1 set. Emitter 4 lph, 8 lph, 16 lph - Rs. 2.80 each. 12 mm connector - Rs. 1.00 each. 16 mm connector - Rs. 1.50 each. Dummy - Rs. 0.30 each 2 inch Venturi with accessories - Rs. 2000 each. 1 ¼ inch Ball valve - Rs. 120 each. 2 inch Ball valve - Rs. 180 each. 2 ½ inch Ball valve - Rs. 250 each. 5 HP motor pump set - Rs. 10000 each Screen Filter – 2 inch size - Rs. 2500 each. Erection charges: Banana - Rs. 0.5 per tree. Problems and Remedies S.No Problems Causes Remedies 1. Leakage of water at the joint between sub main and lateral Damaged joints. Correct damages. 2. Leakage in the poly tube. Damage of polytube by farming activities/rat. Block the holes by goof plug. use poly joiners at cuts. 3. Water not flowing upto lateral end. Holes in laterals. cuts in laterals. bents in laterals. Close the holes and cuts. remove the bends. 4. Out coming of white mixture on removing the end plug. More salinity in water. uncleaned lateral. Remove the end stop. clean the laterals fortnightly. 5. Under flow or over flow from laterals. Clogging of drippers. unclosed end plug. Clean the sand and screen filters. close the end cap. 6. Oily gum material comes out on opening the lateral end. More algae or ferrous material in water. Clean the laterals with water or give chemical treatment. 7. More pressure drop in filters Accumulation of dirt in filters Clean filters every week. Back wash the filters for every 5 minutes daily. 8. Pressure gauge not working. Rain water entry inside. corrosion in gauge pointer damage. Provide plastic cover and fix pointer properly. 9. Drop in pressure Leakage in main opened outlet. low water level in well. Arrest the leakege and close outlet. lower the pump with reference to well water level. 10. More pressure at the entry of sand filter. No bypass in the pipeline/bypass not opened. displacement of filter element. less quantity of sand in filters. Provide bypass before filter and regulate pressure. place filter element properly. fill required quantity of sand. 11. Accumulation of sand and debris in screen filter Displacement of filter element.Less quantity of sand in filters. Place filter element prpoperly.Fill required quantity of sand 12. Ventury not working during chemical tratment and fertigation Excess pressure on filters improper fitting of ventury assembly Bypass extra water to reduce pressure repair the ventury assembly 13. Leakage of water from air release valve Damaged air release valve ring Replace the damaged ring Merits: Increase in yield minimum by 50 60% Quality Improvement of Produce. 45 to 50% saving water. Early harvest Uniformity of water application. Precision Placement of Water and Fertilizer. 25 to 30% saving fertilizer. Saving in time, labour, energy. Discourages weed Growth. Light soils can be brought under cultivation Soil salinity problem get minimized. Top of page Demerits Clogging of drippers. Chemical(precipitation) Salt accumulation at wetting front Fertigation Fertigation Fertigation is the process of applying fertilizers through irrigation system. Fertigation gives flexibility in application of fertilizers, which enables to meet the specific crop requirements at a various stages of growth. Easily and completely soluble nitrogen and potassium fertlisers feeding at the rate of 150 g per plant is sufficient to meet the Nitrogen and Potassium requirement of the crop. Application of Nitrogen in the form of urea and potassium in the form of muriate of potash through the system could be advantageous. These fertilizers could be allowed into the system after making a fertilizer solution in the tank. The fertilizers may be supplied into the system either on daily basis or weekly basis and it may be stopped 10-15 days prior to banana harvest. Apart from the straight fertilizers, there are several formulations of water soluble fertilizers available in the market. A specific formulation needed for banana crop based on the crop growth stage can also chosed for fertigation. WATER SOLUBLE FERTILIZERS (WSF): Water Soluble Fertilizers are fully water-soluble solid fertilizers having high content of primary nutrients with low salt index. They may or may not have Secondary/micro-nutrients. These water-soluble fertilizers can be advantageously utilized for foliar feeding and Nutrigation / fertigation, thus helping in precision agriculture. Choice of fertilizers: Element Fertilizer Limitation Nitrogen Liquid Ammonium nitrate None Ammonium sulphate To be avoided in uses of water having Ca > 70 ppm Urea None Phosphorus Super phosphate water Colloidal particles well screened pH of water regulated Phosphoric acid Very dilute solution pH regulated Avoid micronutrient deficiency in the soils Potassium Liquid potassium nitrate None Liquid potassium chloride Avoid when water contain high chloride >300 ppm Iron, Zinc Chelated compound none Top of page Fertilization Nitrogen Fertilisation Phosphorus Fertilization Potassium Fertilization Nitrogen Fertilization Nitrogen (N) being one of the major plant nutrients, is often supplied in order to obtain optimum crop production. Nitrogen availability is usually limited in the soil compared with other plant nutrients because its various forms can be leached, volatilized, denitrified or fixed in the organic fraction of the soil. Although water quality must be considered when N is applied through a trickle irrigation system, it is less of a problem than other nutrients such as phosphorus. The injections of anhydrous ammonia or aqua ammonia into irrigation water will bring about an increase of pH that may be conducive to the precipitation of calcium, magnesium and phosphorus, or the formation of complex magnesium ammonium phosphates, which are insoluble. This can be especially serious if bicarbonate is also present in the irrigation water. Nitrogen injected in the form of ammonium phosphate can cause serious clogging of the irrigation system. If calcium and magnesium are present in the irrigation water, the phosphate can form complex precipitates. One of the favoured forms of N for use in this system is urea, because it is a highly soluble nitrogen fertiliser that does not react with water to form ions unless the enzyme urease is present. The enzyme, however, is often found in water containing large amounts of algae or other microorganisms. Since urease is not removed by filtration, its presence could cause hydrolysis of nitrogen in urea to the ammonium ion. PHOSPHORUS FERTILISATION Generally, injection of phosphorus (P) fertiliser through a trickle irrigation system has not been recommended. Most P fertilisers have created chemical or physical precipitation problems and subsequent clogging of the trickle irrigation system. Further, the fixation rate of P by soils is high and subsequent movement from its point of placement is limited. WATER QUALITY INTERACTION WITH P The possibility of precipitation of insoluble phosphate is extremely high in calcium and magnesium. The result is the clogging of emitters or trickle lines with calcium and/or 12 magnesium phosphates. However, if precautions are taken phosphoric or sulphuric acid can be added to a trickle irrigation system to prevent such problems. POTASSIUM FERTILIZATION No adverse chemical reactions are expected with the COl1unon potassium (K) fertilisers when they are added alone to water. However reduced solubility and/or fertiliser incompatibility is possible when different fertiliser types are mixed. An example is a mixture of calcium nitrate and potassium sulphate, which will yield insoluble calcium sulphate. Top of page Fertigation Scheduling General Weekly Fertigation Schedule for Banana (g/ plant / application) Weeks after Planting Urea Total (g/plant) MOP Total (g/plant) 9 to 18 week(10 weeks) 15 150 8.0 80 19 to 30 week(12 weeks) 10 120 10 120 31 to 40 week(10 weeks) 7.0 70 12 120 41 to 46 week(5 weeks) Nil Nil 10 50 Total ---- 340 ---- 375 Schedule of application of fertilizers through drip for Banana Total quantity of fertilizer required per acre. Schedule of solid fertilizer Water Soluble Solid Fertilizer : Schedule For Water Soluble Solid Fertilizer Fertigation schedule for banana variety grand naine Recommended dose: 200:35:300 g NPK per plant 100 % of TRD as WSF: 635: 111.13: 953 Kg N: P: K per ha Spacing: 1.5 X 2.1 m (3175 plants per ha) Sl. No. Crop Stage Duration Fertilizer grade Total fertilizer (Kg per ha) 1 Establishment stage 9 -18 weeks(10 weeks) 13-0-45 Urea 423.13 294.04 2 Vegetative stage 19 – 30 weeks(12 weeks) 13-0-45 Urea 846.26 450.50 3 Shooting stage 31 - 42 weeks(12 weeks) Urea 0:0:50 275.60 609.92 4 Development and harvesting stage 43 - 45 weeks(3 weeks) 0:0:50 152.48 P- applied as basal at second month after planting as SSP 111.13 x 6.25 = 695 kg per ha Fertigation schedule for banana variety- Poovan, Robuta and Dwarf Cavendish Recommended dose: 100:35:330 g NPK per plant 100 % of TRD as WSF: 317.5:1047.75 Kg N: K per ha .Spacing: 1.5 X 2.1 m (3175 plants per ha) Sl. No. Crop Stage Duration Fertilizer grade Total fertilizer (Kg per ha) 1 Establishment stage 9 -18 weeks(10 weeks) 13- 0- 45 Urea 465.20 75.45 2 Vegetative stage 19 – 30 weeks(12 weeks) 13- 0- 45 Urea 930.40 82.00 3 Shooting stage 31 - 42 weeks(12 weeks) Urea 0:0:50 137.80 670.56 4 Development and harvesting stage 43 - 45 weeks(3 weeks) 0:0:50 167.64 ‘P- applied as basal at second month after planting as SSP 111.13 x 6.25 = 695 kg per ha Fertigation schedule for banana variety Nendran Recommended dose: 150:90:300 g NPK per plant 100 % of TRD as WSF: 476.25: 953.00 Kg N: K per ha. Spacing: 1.5 X 2.1 m (3175 plants per ha) Sl. No. Crop Stage Duration Fertilizer grade Total fertilizer (Kg per ha) 1 Establishment stage 9 -18 weeks(10 weeks) 13 -0- 45 Urea 423.13 190.69 2 Vegetative stage 19 – 30 weeks (12 weeks) 13- 0- 45 Urea 846.26 278.02 3 Shooting stage 31 - 42 weeks(12 weeks) Urea 0:0:50 609.92 206.69 4 Development and harvesting stage 43 - 45 weeks(3 weeks) 0:0:50 152.48 ‘P- applied as basal at second month after planting as SSP 90 X 317 X 6.25 = 1785.94 kg per ha Top of page Fertigation Methods Methods of fertigation: Injection of fertilizer and other agrochemicals such as herbicides and pesticides into the drip irrigation system is done by By-pass pressure tank Venturi system and Direct injection system. (i) By-pass pressure tank: This method employs a tank into which the dry or liquid fertilizers kept. The tank is connected to the main irrigation line by means of a by-pass so that some of the irrigation water flows through the tank and dilutes the fertilizer solution. This by-pass flow is brought about by a pressure gradient between the entrance and exit of the tank, created by a permanent constriction in the line or by a control valve. (ii) Venturi Injector: A constriction in the main water flow pipe increases the water flow velocity thereby causing a pressure differential (vacuum) which is sufficient to suck fertilizer solution from an open reservoir into the water stream. The rate of injection can be regulated by means of valves. This is a simple and relatively inexpensive method of fertilizer application. (iii) Direct injection system: In this method a pump is used to inject fertilizer solution into the irrigation line. The type of pump used is dependent on the power source. The pump may be driven by an internal combustion engine, an electric motor or hydraulic pressure. The electric pump can be automatically controlled and is thus the most convenient to use. However its use is limited by the availability of electrical power. The use of a hydraulic pump, driven by the water pressure of the irrigation system, avoids this limitation. The injection rate of fertilizer solution is proportional to the flow of water in the system. A high degree of control over the injection rate is possible, no serious head loss occurs and operating cost is low. Another advantage of using hydraulic pump for fertigation is that if the flow of water stops in the irrigation system, fertilizer injection also automatically stops. This is the most perfect equipment for accurate fertigation. Two injection points should be provided, one before and one after the filter for fertigation. This arrangement helps in by-passing the filter if filtering is not required and thus avoids corrosion damage to the valves, filters and filter-screens or to the sand media of sand filters. The capacity of the injection system depends on the concentration, rate and frequency of application of fertilizer solution. Top of page Fertigation Equipments Water soluble fertilizers can be injected through Ventury Injector Fertilizer Tank Injector Pump Automatic Fertigation Controller External energy driven injector pumps Ventury Injector This is very simple and low cost device. A partial vacuum is created in the system which allows suction of the fertilizers into the irrigation system through a constriction which increase the velocity of flow thus creating a drop in pressure. When the pressure drops the fertilizer solution is sucked into the ventury through a suction pipe from the tank and from the enters into irrigation stream. Although simple and with greater uniformity of dosing than fertilizer tank the ventury cause a high pressure loss in the system which may result in uneven water & fertilizer distribution in the field. The suction rate of ventury is 30 to 120 lit. per hour. Fertilizer Tank In this system part of irrigation water is diverted from the main line to flow through a tank containing the fertilizer in a fluid or soluble solid form, before returning to the main line, the pressure in the tank and the main line is the same but a slight drip in pressure is created between the off take and return pipes for the tank by means of pressure reducing valve. This causes water from main line to flow through the tank causing dilution and flow of the diluted fertilizer into the irrigation stream. With this system the concentration of the fertilizer entering the irrigation water charges continuously with the time, starting at high concentration. As a result uniformity of fertilizer distribution can be problem. Fertilizer tanks are available in 90,120,160 liters capacity. Fertilizer Injector Pump These are piston or diaphragm pumps which are driven by the water pressure of the irrigation system and such as the injection rate is proportional to the low of water in the system. A high degree of control over the fertilizer injection rate is possible, no serious head losses are incurred and operating cost are low. Another advantage is that if the flow of water stops. Fertilizer infection also automatically stops. This is perfect equipment for accurate fertigation. Suction rates of pumps varies from 40 lit to 160 lit per hour. Automatic Fertigation Controller Automatic fertigation control system are installed for proper fertilization controlling. the following are the advantages of installing an automatic system: It gives proper proportionate and timely fertigation to the crop It helps save fertilizers upto 20% It increasing the yield upto 10-15% Easy installation Controls pH & EC or pH & TDS No peristaltic pumps Industrial grade probes Less maintenance stays in calibration longer Works with any type of hydrophonic system CRITERIA FOR APPLYING FERTILISERS All chemicals applied through irrigation systems must meet the following criteria. They must (i) avoid corrosion, softening of plastic pipe tubing, or clogging of any component of the system (ii) be safe for field use (iii) increase or at least not decrease crop yield (iv) be soluble or emulsifiable in water and (v) not react adversely to salts or other chemicals in the irrigation water. In addition, the chemicals or fertiliser must be distributed uniformly throughout the field. Achieving such uniformity of distribution requires efficient mixing, uniform water application, knowledge of the flow, characteristics of water and fertilisers in the distribution lines. To avoid clogging, chemicals applied through drip irrigation system must meet certain requirements. The chemicals must be completely soluble. If more than one material is used in preparing a concentrated stock solution for subsequent injection into the drip lines the chemicals must not react with each other to form a precipitate. The chemicals must also be compatible with the salts contained in the irrigation water. The injection points should be provided, one before and one after the filter. This arrangement can be used to bypass the filter if filtering is not required, and thus avoid corrosion damage to the valves, filters, and filter screens or to the sand media of sand filters. Furthermore, the discharge line from the fertiliser tank should have a filter, and similarly, the injection hoses line should be equipped with an in line hose filter or screen. The intake or suction side of tile injector should be equipped with a filter or strainer. Injection points must be installed so that injected fertilisers are properly mixed before the flow divides in several directions. The size of capacity of the injection system depends on the concentration, rate and frequency of application. Naturally, less fertiliser solution and more frequent application require smaller, less costly units. Fertiliser application rates and application times vary considerably depending on crop and emitter spacing. Merits Increase in yield minimum by 25-30% Export quality production Saving in fertilizers by 25-30% Precise application of fertilizers Uniform distribution of fertilizers Nutrient requirements can be fulfilled as per physiological stages Acidic nature helps to neutralize salts in water & soil Acidic nature helps in avoiding clogging of drippers, it cleans drip system No nutrient loss by leaching, fixation & volatilization Major & micro nutrients can be applied in one solution Fertilizers can be injected as per required concentration Improve efficiency of fertilizer & water Saving in time, labour, energy Light soils can be brought under cultivation Demerits Toxicity to field workers Chance of backflow into water source, for that NRV and vacuum valve has to be installed Insoluble fel1ilisers are not suitable (super phosphate) Corrosive effect of fertiliser Phosphate may get precipitated in the pipe line and dripper due to pH reaction High cost Top of page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Nutrient Management IMPORTANCE OF NUTRIENTS MANURING INTEGRATED NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT METHODS OF FERTILIZER APPLICATION PHYSIOLOGICAL DISORDER Importance of Nutrients Crop growth depends on, among other things, nutrients. Both macro and micronutrients are essential for plant growth. Macronutrients are those elements needed in large amounts by the crop, and large quantities have to be applied if the soil is deficient in one or more of them. Nitrogen (N), Phosphorus (P) and Potassium (K) are the ‘primary macronutrients’ and these form the basis of NPK fertilizer compounds. The ‘secondary macronutrients’ are Calcium (Ca), Magnesium (Mg) and Sulphur (S). Micronutrients are those elements required in very small quantities. Despite being needed in small quantities, micronutrients are essential for the overall performance and health of the Ragi crop. They include Iron (Fe), Manganese (Mn), Zinc (Zn), Copper (Cu), Molybdenum (Mo), and Boron (B). Macro Nutrient Nitrogen Phosphorous Potassium Magnesium Calcium Sulphur Micro Nutrient Boron Iron Zinc Macro Nutrient Nitrogen Effects of Nutrients Nitrogen is the chief promoter of growth. It induces vegetative growth of pseudostem and leaves giving a healthy green colour and robust frame which are essential for high yields. N influences the number of leaves produced, time taken for the leaf unfolding and longitudinal growth of petioles. During the first 4-6 months of planting if there are more healthy and large sized leaves, the bunch size will also be larger. Hence, N influences bunch grade and sucker production. Symptom of Damage The leaves become pale green in colour. Midrib, petiole and leaf sheath show reddish-pink colouration. Besides delay in leaf emergence, shortening of internodes occurs. In excess of nitrogen, the plants are vigorous but the bunches are small and the fingers do not fill out properly thereby fruit quality gets affected. Nitrogen deficiency causes growth reduction, chlorotic leaves with reduced area and rate of leaf production. Leaf petioles are short, thin and compressed, thin profuse roots and lesser number of suckers is produced due to low .Nitrogen and Phosphrous uptake increases. Control Measures Small pit should be taken and 100g urea per plant should be applied followed by irrigation. Top of Page Phosphorus Effects of Nutrients Phosphorus helps produce healthy rhizome and a strong root system. It also influences flower setting and general vegetative growth. Symptom of Damage Phosphorous is required in the plant crop cycle between 3 to 9 months after planting. Phosphorous is relatively lost during flowering and fruiting and redistributed to the follower or sucker. The symptoms to appear are stunted growth with poor root development, chlorosis and breaking of leaf petioles. Low Magnesium supply reduces root uptake and distribution of Phosphorous. Initial greening of leaves followed by marginal chlorosis has been designated to be phosphorus deficiency. Initial greening of leaves followed by marginal chlorosis has been designated to be phosphorus deficiency. Phosphorous deficiency causes complete cessation elongation. At a height of about 2 ft. rossetting of leaves with older leaves becoming increasingly and irregularly necrotic leaf production is reduced, and marginal chlorosis and premature death are caused. Control Measures 50g Diammonium phosphate or 300g super phosphate added to each pit followed by irrigation. Top of Page Potassium Effects of Nutrients Potassium stimulates early shooting and significantly shortens the time required for fruit maturity. It improves bunch grade and size of fingers and also the quality of the fruits. Symptom of Damage The leaves become smaller and are slower to grow,followed by rapid yellowing starting from the tip of older leaves. The yellow leaf dries up quickly and the leaf tip curls inward.Later the dead leaf breaks near the bottom of the lamina.Fruits are badly shaped, poorly filled and unsuitable for marketing Potassium deficiency causes marked reduction in growth,production of new leaves and leaf area and premature yellowing of leaves. Once the stored potassium is exhausted, deficiency symptoms appear suddenly starting with yellowing of tips and distal margins of older leaves closely followed by necrosis and desiccation. The yellowing and necrosis spread rapidly in a proximal direction until the whole leaf has withered in a normal position. Lamina splitting occurs and folds downwards. While the midrib bends and fractures leaving the distal half of the petiole leaf hanging. Purplish brown blotches appear at the base of the petioles and in severe cases the centre of the corm may show areas of brown, water soaked disintegrated cells. Control Measures Foliar spray of potassium sulphate 1% (10g per liter of water) on leaves or 225g muriate of potash + 125g urea should be added along with well decomposed FYM to each pit followed by irrigation. Top of Page Magnesium Effects of Nutrients Deficiencies usually occur while bananas have been grown for 10-12 years without magnesium fertilizer or where high amounts of potassium fertilizer have been given for a number of years. Magnesium is considered to be moderately redistributed in the banana plant. A large range of leaf symptoms have been attributed to magnesium deficiency, including marginal yellowing extending to near the midrib, changes in phyllotaxy, purple mottling of the petioles, marginal necrosis and separation of leaf sheaths from Pseudostem. Symptom of Damage Leaf symptoms include marginal yellowing and spread along the midrib showing V shape green pattern. Separation of leaf sheaths from the pseudo stem. Blue disease; purple blotching of petioles and necrotic patches on the older leaves. Control Measures Application of magnesium sulphate 25g per plant should be added followed by irrigation. Top of Page Calcium Effects of Nutrients Although calcium is quite immobile in the banana, early description of calcium deficiency referred to a marginal scorch on older leaves. It appears that these symptoms may have been an artifact of high sodium supply. In the field calcium deficiency symptoms include spike leaves i.e. leaves in which the banana is deformed or almost absent. In Calcium deficient plants, fruit quality is inferior and the skin splits when ripe. Symptom of Damage Youngest leaf become abnormal in size , leaf margins become dry and veins become erupted and cause the spike leaf in which the lamina on new leaves is deformed. It causes heart rot to newly planted tissue culture plantlets. The fruit quality is inferior and the peel splits during ripening. Control Measures Dehydrated lime 50g per plant should be added followed by irrigation. Top of Page Sulphur Effects of Nutrients Sulphur is actively redistributed from old to young leaves, symptoms appear in the young levels, which are yellowish white. As the deficiency progress, necrotic patches appear on leaf margins and slight thickening of the veins occurs, similar to B and Ca deficiencies. The growth is stunted and the bunch is very small or chocked. The most rapid uptake of sulphur occurs between the sucker and shooting stages. After shooting, the uptake rate is reduced and sulphur needed for fruit growth comes from the leaves and Pseudostem. Sulphur imbalance causes an increase in nitrogen concentration in leaves. Symptom of Damage The sulphur deficiency symptoms appear in both young and old leaves. The initial symptoms are chlorosis in young leaves and reduced leaves development.The leaves took on a silver-green colouring. Control Measures Apply 100g Ammonium sulphate per plant or Apply 100g gypsum per plant. Top of Page Micro Nutrient Boron Effects of Nutrients Deficiency of boron may results in reduction in weight and size of the bunch and it will effects the proper filling of the bunch. For boron deficiency apply 20 g borax per litre at the time of planting of spray boric acid at 0.2 % in 4th of 5th month after planting. Symptom of Damage The symptoms include leaf curling and deformation and apparently unequal size and width of the lamina. Boron deficiency produces small deformed leaves. Veins will be prominent with streaks across the veins on the leaf.Difficulty in rooting of suckers. Marked deformity of young leaves which are reduced in size.Sometimes consisting only of the midrib. Leaf shape irregular with curled and undulating margin. Interveinal chlorosis and striation at right angles to main veins,necrosis without previous chlorosis on leaf margins especially the tips, leaf tip breakage and tearing and shoot proliferation. Severe deficiency causes all growth to stop. Boron deficiency occurs more in humid areas. Control Measures Application of sodium tetraborate @ 25g per plant should be applied followed by irrigation. Top of Page Iron Effects of Nutrients Iron deficiency has been recorded in alkaline soils and is identified by interveinal chlorosis of young leaves. Application of iron sulphate will correct the iron deficiency. Symptom of Damage Younger leaves become pale green or white in colour. Control Measures Foliar spray of 0.5% (5g per litre of water) ferrous sulphate along with wetting agent. Top of Page Zinc Effects of Nutrients Zinc deficiency is found in banana when it grows in zinc deficient soils. Narrow pointed and chlorite young leaves, Bunch top crowns are the symptoms of zinc deficiency . Application of 50 g/plant zinc sulphate at the time of planting is recommended or foliar application of zinc sulphate at 3 g/litre + urea (5g per litre) + 10 ml non ionic sticker in 20 litres of water. The above prepared solution is sprayed at 45 and 60 days after planting. For ratoon crop 45 days after cutting the mother plant. Symptom of Damage The symptom causes the leaves to become narrow, with yellow to white stripes between the secondary veins. This results in alternating yellow and green stripes. Zinc deficiency in saline soil with no or little organic content. Zinc deficiency is characterized by small and narrow tapered leaves with interveinal chlorosis. New leaves are small.Flowering is delayed. Bunches become small with bottle -necked fruits. Chlorosis in strips, the chlorotic bands parallel to main veins often almost white and of variable width alternating with green bands. Severe deficiency causes young leaves to be small, elongated and pointed,entirely chlorotic with white dots visible against the light. In severely affected plants fruit development is slow; the bunch is yellow and almost horizontal for a relatively longer period. Fingers appear twisted are shorter, smaller, thinner and lighter green in colour. Distal ends of fruits are nipple shaped. Control Measures: Zinc sulphate @ 15 - 30g per plant should be added followed by irrigation. Top of Page Manuring Organic Manuring Farmyard manure Farm yard Manure is prepared basically using cow dung cow urine, waste straw and other dairy wastes. FYM is rich in nutrients. A larger portion of nitrogen is made available as and when the FYM decomposes. balanced nutrition is made available to the plants. Availability of Potassium and Phosphorus from FYM is similar to that from inorganic sources. Application of FYM improves soil fertility. Bio fertilizers Biofertilizers are ready to use live formulates of such beneficial microorganisms which on application to seed,root or soil mobilize the availability of nutrients by their biological activity in particular, and help build up the micro-flora and improves soil health. It increases the crop yield by 20-30%. Replace chemical nitrogen and phosphorus by 25%. Stimulate plant growth. Activate the soil biologically. Restore natural soil fertility. Provide protection against drought and some soil borne diseases. Green manuring Green manuring is the practice of growing a short duration, succulent and leafy legume crop and ploughing the plants in the same field before they form seeds. Green leaf manuring refers to adding the loppings from legume plants or trees to a field and then incorporating them into the soil by ploughing Green manuring improves the nitrogen use efficiency or nitrogen fertilizer as well as conservation and utilization of soil moisture. Compost Compost is well decomposed organic wastes like plant residues, animal dung, and urine earth from cattle shed waste fodder etc. Compost is dark in colour, sweet smelling and nutrient rich material It increases organic matter in soils. It increases water holding capacity of soils. Vermicomposting Vermicomposting is a type of compost making in which earthworms are used to convert organic wastes into valuable material to supply nutrients for crops. This compost is an odorless, clean, organic material containing adequate quantities of N, P, K and several micronutrients essential for plant growth. Vermicompost is a preferred nutrient source for organic farming. It is eco-friendly, non-toxic, consumes low energy input for composting and is a recycled biological product. Coir pith Coir pith is also known as Coco peat or Coir dust. This by-product of the coir industry can be converted into organic manure. It contains all macro and micro nutrients like N,P,K,Ca,Cu,Mg. It increases water holding capacity. It improves aeration. Enhances deep root system. Eco-friendly. Inorganic Manuring Banana responds well to both manure and fertilizers. The dosages of nutrient to be applied depend on the variety, initial soil fertility, climate etc. It is very essential to induce quick growth and produce more leaves with larger area. The optimum quantity of nutrient, time and availability of nutrients to the plants are vital for optimum growth and production. To ensure adequate supply of nutrients during its critical growth and application of fertilizers should be completed within 100 to 120 days of planting. Inorganic Manures usually provide only one of the many substances needed by plants for their growth. Inorganic manures fill a specific nutritional need of the plant, much like a vitamin pill. If the plant is lacking a specific substance, inorganic manures can quickly fill that plant's need. TamilNadu Banana requires higher fertilization due to its rapid and vigorous growth and high fruit yield. The nutrient uptake studies also reveal that the uptake per unit area is more than any other crop. The nutrient uptake pattern analysis conducted in different countries showed that a crop of 40-60 t of yield/ha removes nearly 250-300 Kg N,25-40 Kg P,800-1200 Kg K,150-180 Kg Ca,40-60 Kg Mg and 14-20 Kg S per hectare. This reveals that the fertilizer applied should contain more of nitrogen and potash in the ratio of 1:3. Kerala Apply the fertilizer 60-75 cm around the plant in two equal split doses; the first, two months after planting and the second, four months after planting. For ratoon crop, the entire fertilizers have to be applied in a single dose immediately after the harvest of the preceding crop. Irrigate immediately after manuring. Note Karnataka Top of Page Integrated Nutrient Management Integrated nutrient management (INM) is the system of rationalization of the plant nutrition management to upgrade the efficiency of plant nutrient supply through adequate association of local and external nutrient sources accessible and affordable to the farmers. Combined application of organic manures and chemical fertilizers generally produces higher crop yields than their sole application. This increase in crop productivity may be due to the combined effect of nutrient supply, synergism and improvement in soil physical and biological properties. Locally available various organic sources like coir pith, pressmud, FYM and copper ore tailings (COT) can be judiciously used to enhance the yield and profitability of crops. Application of AM 250 g + phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB) 50 g + Azospyrillam 50 g/ plant along with 100% recommended dose of fertilizers (110:35:330 NPK/ plant is recommended to get high yield potential of 65 t/ha. Foliar application of ZnSO4 0.2% + FeSO4 0.2% + CuSO4 0.2% + Boric acid 0.1% at 3rd , 5th and 7th month after planting along with recommended dose of fertilizers is recommended to improve the yield and quality traits. Covering bunches with 150 gauge white polythene bunch cover with 2% vent holes immediately after opening of the last hand is recommended to enhance the bunch maturity by 20 days, reduce the blemished fruits by 19.26% and attractive coloured fruits. Soil application of pseudomonas fluorescens 10 g/plant at the time of planting is recommended of nematodes. Foliar spray of propiconazole 0.1% + pseudomonas flourescens 0.5%, three times at 15 days interval is recommended to effectively control sigatoka leaf spot disease. Pseudostem injection of monocrotophos or dimethoate @ 1 ml + 5 ml water mixture administered @ 4 ml/ plant has to be adopted for the management of pseudostem borer in banana and to obtain benefit cost ratio of 2.85 and 2.79 for monocrotophos and dimethoate respectively. Spraying mancozeb 0.25 % starting from 3rd month onwards with one month interval is recommended to reduce the leaf spot incidence. Top of Page Methods of Fertilizer Application Split Application Generally, Banana needs 150-200g N, 40-60g P2O5 and 200-300g K2O/plant/crop depending upon soil and cultivar. Application of one-fourth N and one-third K2O at reproductive phase is also found beneficial. Application of N in reproductive phase delays the senescence of leaves and improves bunch weight. Finger filling is better when one-third of k2O is applied at shooting stage. Fertigation Fertigation is a method of applying fertilizers,soil amendments and other water soluble products required by the plant during its growth stages through drip/sprinkler irrigation.The application of nutrients through irrigation systems is called fertigation, a contraction of fertilization and irrigation.The most common nutrient applied by fertigation is nitrogen.Elements applied less often include phosphorus, potassium, sulfur, zinc and iron.This technique can reduce fertilizer application costs by eliminating high operational requirement.It may also improve nutrient efficiency by applying them closer to when the plant needs them. Also, it could conceivably reduce leaching or denitrification (gaseous) losses of nitrogen and lower the luxury uptake of nutrients by plants. Fertigation is a time-tested process of spoon feeding: Delivering small amounts of fertilizer through an irrigation system each time the system is operated. Classically, fertigation supplies nutrients in the form of fertilizers, although it can also be used to deliver soil amendments and a variety of other materials, including agricultural chemicals to cope with crop pests and plant diseases. Foliar Application Foliar application of nutrients provides quick and effective augmentation of nutrients and may prevent hidden hunger when properly timed. Secondary and micro-nutrients are more amenable to foliar feeding owing to smaller crop requirement, but sprays of N,P and K have also been known to boost fruit bearing stage. However, it is advisable to avoid blanket foliar application of multiple nutrients in favour of properly diagnosed single micro-nutrient spray for cost-effectiveness and ecological safety. At reproductive stage, high nutrient availability is important to support plant requirements until harvest since large quantities of photosynthesis are beginning to move from the source to the sink-developing fruit bunches. Any limitation in the supply of nutrients at this time will negatively affect bunch size and quality. However, it has not been wise to apply fertilizers basally at finger development stage, since the uptake is slow and low. Arka Banana Special Foliar micronutrient formulation for Banana (Crop specific micronutrient formulations) Application / Use: For fast correction of micronutrient disorders in Banana soil application of micronutrient is inefficient (5%), delayed (30 - 45 days) and cost is high (Appx: Rs. 800 kg for Boron and Rs. 1500 for Zinc alone/ha. By this formulation 3 sprays. Cost is Rs.800/ha, correction within 24 – 48 hrs and nutrient use efficiency is 30 – 40%. Benefit cost ratio 9 : 1. Input Needed: Pulvenizer - 50 kg/hr Mixer 100 kg/batch Space: 90 sq meter (with drying yard) Raw material: Zinc sulphate, Boric acid, Borax, Ferrous Sulphate, Ferric citrate Fillers: Magnesium sulphate or Calcium sulphate Power needed: 5 HP Analysis of Raw material to be done in Atomic Absorption Spectro photometer (Zn, Fe), Visible spectro photometer (B) If Paid service is available enough. No need to have own instruments. Patenting Applied on 3rd March 2008. Output Capacity: 100 kg/ 8 hrs. (if processed raw material is ready – 6 man days) Specific Benefits: Correction of micro nutrients very fast (24 – 48 hrs) and hence other inputs like NPK, water not wasted. Soil application inefficient. Spray on bunches Zn, Fe content of fruit increased, deficient in Indian diet – value addition at farm. Unit Cost: Rs. 100 per kg Description: The product has Zn, B & Fe in a chemically active, water soluble combination. The nutrients that are incorporated and the ratio have been identified by intensive research in identifying predominant nutrient disorders in all cultivars of Banana growing regions of Southern India considering the common limiting micronutrients by visual diagnosis, confirmed by soil and leaf analysis. The chemicals are water soluble and toxicity is avoided. Hence any farmer with less skill can also use it whereas the existing market formulation result in toxicity if handled improperly. This formulation can be used in semi arid, sub humid and humid regions. The cost is Rs. 100/kg, and common stickers like Rs. 2/- shampoo sachets in the village shops can be used. Common lemon/lime fruit juice increases the efficiency of uptake. Effective for garden land banana exp. with poor root health for all varieties including Neypoovan, D. Cavendish, Robusta, Grand nain (both tissue culture and suckers). Sprayed at 5/g litre, 5th, 6th, 7th and one month after bunch emergence (drenching once at 0.5% after sucker planting is very effective). Can be mixed with plant protection chemicals. Basic principle: India has approximately 2.2 lakh banana holdings and leaf analysis based nutrient correction involves 2 lakh samples per year analysis which is impossible. A composite formulation for correcting predominant disorders has proved effective. Technology being used and from 2002. Product worth sold Rs.14.00 lakh from ATIC of IIHR. In great demand promoted by KVK’s of Zone VIII. Efficient in correcting both visible deficiencies and hidden hunger of Zn, B & Fe. Developed By: Dr. M. Edward Raja, Principal Scientist & Head, Division of Soil Science & Agricultural Chemistry, IIHR, Bangalore Contact Person: Director, Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hessarghatta Lake, Bangalore-560 089, Tel: 080-28466420-24 (ext. 200); Fax: 080-28466291; email: director@iihr.ernet.in Institute: IIHR, Bangalore Top of Page Physiological Disorder Kottai Vazhai seedy structure in fruit seedy structure in fruit spraying 2-4-D on hands .2-4-D plant growth regulators Symptoms Poovan the leading commercial variety of India shows a predisposition to seediness locally known as 'Kottai vazhai'. This malady is characterized by the presence of distinctly, conical and ill filled fruits with a prominent central core having many under developed seedy structures rendering the fruits inedible. It is noticed only in Tamil Nadu Incidence of 'Kottai vazhai' in the early stage are not detectable Later, the 'Kottai vazhai' developed streaks, striations and blotches on the pseudo stem and on the leaves. The second crop of 'Kottai vazhai' also has these blotches suggesting the possible presence of a genetic basis for the disorder. The bunches are held at a angle above the horizontal position and the peduncle shows irregular curvatures. Management It is easily overcome by spraying of 2,4-D 20 ppm (1g in 50 litres of water) immediately after the last hand opens. By this treatment seediness is completely overcome and the treated bunches are found to be better in quality Finger drop Softening and weakening of pedicel Softening and weakening of pedicel Harvest the mature green fruit Ventilate and fruits kept at 18°c Symptoms Finger drop is a physiological disorder which occurs as a result of softening and weakening of the pedicel which causes individual fruit of a hand to separate or dislodge very easily from the crown during ripening. Management Harvest physiologically matured green bunches Dehand bunches and cut into clusters Pack clusters in a carton Ripen fruits by exposure to ethylene (1ml/litre) for 24-48 hours at a temperature of 14-18°c and relative humidity of 90-95% Ventilate and allow the fruits at a temperature of 18°c Peel splitting Spliting of peel Spliting of peel Dehand Bunches Ripen banana kept for ethylene exposure Symptoms Longitudinal split of the peel, usually beginning from the proximal end near the pedicel. The split usually divides the peel into unequal halves and ultimately expose the pulp as the split widens Management Harvest physiologically matured green bunches Dehand bunches and cut into clusters Ripen fruits by exposure to ethylene (1ml/litre) for 24-48 hours at a temperature of 14-18°c and relative humidity of 90-95% Ventilate and allow the fruits at a temperature of 18°c Chilling Injury Fruit skin changes to dark colour Browning of pulp Grey skin colour Avoid temperature below 13°c (55°F) Symptoms It is a physiological disorder that occurs in most fruits of tropical origin when subjected to temperatures below the critical temperature Chilling injury can occur in either unripe or ripe fruit. It can cause lowering of market quality and value or total loss. Surface lesions, such as pitting, large sunken areas and discolouration of the surface Dark water soaked areas of the peel Internal discolouration (browning) of pulp Breakdown of tissues Failure of fruits to ripen normally Fruits harvest at mature but unripe stage develop a dull, grey skin colour, startch is no longer converted to sugar and fruits fail to ripen When chilling is severe, fruits develops extensive sub-epidermal browning and eventually turn black There is a loss of the development of the characteristic flavor, aroma and taste, and often the development of off-flavour Management Chilling injury can easily be avoided in Musa cultivars/hybrids by simply limiting storage or handling to temperature above the threshold. Avoid refrigeration at below 13°c (55°F) Choke throat Fruit skin changes to dark colour Browning of pulp Grey skin colour Avoid temperature below 13°c (55°F) Symptoms Choke throat occurs when the bunch is about to emerge from the top of the pseuodstem but becomes trapped at various stages of emergence. In its most severe form the bunch fails to emerge from the top of the pseudo stem and instead bursts through the side of the pseudo stem. Such bunches are worthless. In severe cases the top 1 or 2 hands become trapped in the throat of the plant leading to badly misshapen fruit. Bunches which experience difficulty in emergence usually have several leaves closely ‘bunched’ together at the top of the pseudo stem Choke throat is seasonal in nature. It is usually in the winter and early spring following cold weather. It can also occur in water logging or sever water stress conditions and following wind storms Management Select taller varieties, which are less susceptible to choke, throat, eg Williams. Choose a warm environment, one which is well protected from frosts and strong winds. Slopes facing the north and north west are usually warmer. Control time of bunching to avoid cold weather prior to bunching. Plants bunching in the late spring to mid autumn are less affected. Good on-farm drainage measures including mounding of rows. Regular irrigation to avoid water stress particularly during hot-dry weather. Higher nitrogen rates are thought to be beneficial. Goose flesh Symptoms Goose flesh is a physiological disorder which affects the banana peel. The symptoms of this disorder have been observed on ripe fruits and the degree of peel damage varies from slight to severe. Affected fruit has a wilted and shriveled appearance and the peel usually turns brown, when the fruit is handled. The limited handling possibilities and unattractive appearance render 'goose flesh' fruits unpopular. This disorder develops in fruits which develop in dry winter conditions or ripen under dry conditions ie, low humidity causes this disorder Management There is no remedial measure to overcome this disorder. Hard lump Symptoms Rasthali is a very delicious and dessert variety. The disorder of hard mass or lump commonly occurs in this variety. Lump are pinkish brown in colour, less luscious and firmer than the usually soft pulp and tastes like immature or unripe fruits, resulting in impaired eating quality of the fruit. Lump development is related to lower day temperature during fruit development period and is generally seen in fruits harvested during July-December. Management This disorder can be overcome by adjusting planting time so as to harvest bunches during January-June. by treating cut end of the harvested bunch or hand with 2,4-D at 500 to 1000 ppm.(0.5g in 1g in 1 litre water) Neer vazhai Symptoms This disorder has recently been noticed in the `Nendran' banana grown in Tiruchirapalli district of Tamil Nadu. Very low percentage of plants is affected and suckers from affected clumps carry the disorder. It is characterized by fruitless bunches and cannot be detected until bunch emergence ie. no other symptoms appear. The bunches have 4-5 hands and have only neutral flowers, the remaining nodal clusters consist of only persistent male flowers. The malady may be due to imbalance of hormone or hormones influencing female flower development. Management No remedial measure Abrasion Injury Skin scuffing Abrasion through propping stick Skin changes brown to black Careful handling of fruits Symptoms Abrasions result from skin scuffing against other fruits or surfaces of handling equipment or shipping boxes. When exposed to low (<90%) relative humidity conditions, water loss from scuffed areas is accelerated and their colour turns brown to black. Management Careful handling to minimize the abrasion injury Avoid the fruits under refrigeration below 90% relative humidity November dump Symptoms Cold temperatures also have a marked effect on bunch development. When the flower initiation occurs during the winter, a characteristically a peculiar bunch can be expected. The November dump bunch is small and composed of hands of uneven size and often deformed fruits. The smaller fingers on the hands are, in many cases, fuller at the flower end and thinner at the stalk end. The flower end is often black, rough and cracked and during a good rainy season, fungal diseases further damage these fruits. Another common symptom is the cone-shaped protuberance at the flower end. This protuberance is pale green in colour. The amount of misshapen fruit as November-emerging bunches varies from year to year. It must be stressed that November dump symptoms are caused by cold temperatures and they are not mineral deficiency or drought symptoms. Management A good orchard practice is to cut down all the plants producing severe November dumps. Top of page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Crop Protection Pest Management Aphids, Pentalonia nigronervosa f. typica Corm Weevil,Cosmopolites sordidus Nematode Pseudostem Weevil, Odiporus longicollis Fruit Rust Thrips Rust Thrips Castor hairy caterpillar Cut worm, Spodoptera litura Banana beetle, Nodostoma subcostatum Spirling white fly Hard scale, Aspidiotus destructor Scales, Coccus hesperidum Fruit and leaf scarring beetle, Colapsis hypochlora Banana scale moth White Grub Termites or White ants Nematodes Aphids,Pentalonia nigronervosa f. typica Nature of Damage The nymphs and adults congregate under the outer base of the pseudostem Aphids always accompanied by ants, which act as dispersing agents of nymph Honey dew secretion appears on the plants which attracts the ants The aphids suck the sap of the plant and reduce the growth and vigour They also act as a vector of Banana Bunchy Top Virus (BBTV) Aphids present on the leaves Bunchy appearance of leaves Honey dew secretion Identification of Pest Nymph : Oval or slightly elongated, reddish brown with six segmented antennae Adult : Small to medium sized aphids, shiny, reddish to dark brown or almost black. They have six segmented antennae and prominent dark veins Adults start producing young one day after reaching maturity. They can give birth to 4 aphids per day with an average production of 14 offspring per female. Adult Nymph Control Measures Cultural Control Ensure clean cultivation Use healthy and pest free suckers co check the pest incicence Rogue out the affected plants Ratoon and inter crops shoul not be taken up Collect planting material from healthy plants Immersing flowers and foliage in hot water at 49 degrees centigrade for 10 minutes kills banana aphids. Destruction of weeds and alternate hosts. Chemical Control Spray soapy water or insecticidal soap on plants thoroughly on petioles, furled leaves, whorls or on young suckers Spray Dimethoate (75ml/100lit) or Diazinon (1.5ml/lit) or Acephate (1.3g/lit) on infested plants and suckers Spray Methyl Demeton 25 EC 0.05% Biological Control Introduction braconid wasps, Lysiphlebius testaceipes as parasitoid to parasitize the aphids Release predators such as lady bird beetles and lace wings in the field which are very active aphid feeders Apply bio control agents like entomopathognic fungus, Beauveria bassiana in the banana fields Lady bird beetle Spraying oil + soap water mix Use healthy suckers for planting Top of page Corm Weevil,Cosmopolites sordidus Nature of damage Newly planted banana fields are easily susceptible to infestation Infestation begins at the base of the outermost leaf-sheath and in injured tissues at the lower part of the pseudostem. Initially the young grubs make several longitudinal tunnels in the surface tissue until they are able to penetrate to adjacent inner leaf-sheaths Then they bore into the pseudostem base and rhizome/corm, but also into the base of suckers and into roots. Larval tunnels may run for the entire length of fallen pseudostems. Infested plant shows yellowing and withering of leaves, slowed plant growth, root destruction, reduced fruit production Young infested suckers often wither and fail to develop. Plants are easily blown down by mild to strong winds. An economic threshold of 3 weevils per cut banana corm or pseudostem placed in the field overnight will trigger control action Reduced fruit production Tunneling and rottening of corms Young suckers fail to develop Identification of Pest Egg: elongate-oval, about 2 to 3 mm long and white in colour. Eggs are laid singly in small cavities that are chewed out by the female in the base of the pseudostem just above ground level, in the upper part of the corm, in roots near the soil surface and at the end of cut stems (stumps). Egg period is 4 to 36 days depending on temperature conditions. Grub: creamy white legless grubs, stout and distinctly curved and swollen in the middle of the body. The head is reddish-brown with strong mouthparts. Fully-grown grubs are about 12 mm long. Grub period is 20 to 25 days Pupa: white and about 12 mm long. Pupation takes place in holes bored by the grubs. Pupal period is 5 to 7 days Adult: 10 to 16 mm long weevils, hard-shelled, with a rather long curved snout. Newly emerged weevils are red brown, turning almost black after a few days. They are free living, they are most commonly found between leaf sheaths, in the soil at the base of the mat or associated with crop residues. Weevils may live for up to two years, and can live without food for six months, but are very sensitive to desiccation and will die within 48 hours if kept in a dry substrate. They are active at night. Larva Pupa Control Measures Cultural Control Field sanitation Use clean planting material – This can be done by selecting vigourous healthy planting material Trimming the suckers Hot water treatment of corms at 52 to 55°C for 15 to 27 minutes Suckers should be pruned periodically and infested pseudostems must be removed from the field and destroyed. Banana stumps kept in the field after harvest must be removed and destroyed as they serve as weevil refuges and breeding sites Crop rotation with non host crops like paddy and sugarcane Use mechanical barriers in the field Ensure proper fertilization and free from weeds at all times Use mulch away from the banana stool leaving a clear ring about 60 cm from the base of the stool to keep the roots growing towards the surface and to avoid moist conditions near the stool, which will attract banana weevils Do not take regular crop in the same field to avoid initial infestation Removal of pseudo stems below ground level Avoid growing Robusta, Karpooruvally, Malbhog, Champa and Adukkar Grow less susceptible varieties like Poovan, Kadali, Kunnan, Poomkalli Chemical Control Cut the banana plant after harvest at the ground level and treat it with carbaryl (1g/liter) or chlorpyriphos (2.5 ml/lit) at the cut surface. Application of Furadan 3G @ 20 gms or Phorate 10G @ 12 gms or Neem cake @ 1/2 Kg. per pit at planting. Before planting, the suckers should be dipped in 0.1 per cent quinalphos emulsion. Remove the pseudostem after harvest and treat it with Carboryl (1g/lit) or Chlorpyriphos (2.5ml/lit). Fumigation of banana plants using Celphos (aluminium phosphide tablets), especially during the vegetative phase is phytotoxic and should be discouraged. Apply castor cake 250g or carbaryl 50g dust or phorate 10g per pit before planting also prevents infestation Severe attack dimethoate, methyl demeton, or phosphamidon may be sprayed around the collar region. Biological Control Natural enemies - Predatory ants such as the bigheaded ant (Pheidole megacephala) and Tetramorium spp feed the eggs, grubs and pupae of weevils. Apply biocontrol agents like Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium anisopliae,an entomopathogenic fungus, in the banana fields and it causes more than 90% mortality of the weevils Steinerma and Heterorhabditis sp of nematodes attack both adult and grubs in the field. Application of 60 to 100 g of neem seed powder or neem cake at planting and then at four months intervals significantly diminished pest damage and increased yields. Application of over 100 g or neem oil was phytotoxic (harmful to plants) and uneconomical. Mechanical Control Use of pheromone trap @ 25 traps /ha to destroy the weevil populations. Disc-on-stump traps can be used for trapping weevils. Disc-on-stump traps consist of corm slices placed on top of harvested plants cut at the rhizome. Adult weevils are attracted to the cut stems or corms for shelter, to feed and to lay eggs. The weevils can be collected by hand and destroyed. The efficiency of the traps depends on their numbers and frequency of trapping. Keep the longitudinal split banana traps @ 100/ha. Corm injection in banana Pheromone trap Predatory ants Top of page Nematode Nature of Damage: Nematode causes reddish-brown to black,elongated lesions which are readily seen when the roots are split open. Roots eventually blacken and die. Attacks by nematodes, combined with the effects of secondary rot organisms, destroy or weaken much of the root system. Infested plants lack vigour and fruiting is poor. Such plants are readily blown over and the roots are exposed. Marginal yellowing of leaves Affected palnts topple over easily Drying of boot leaf in advance stage Identification of pathogen The causal organism of nematode is Burrowing nematode (Radopholus similis), Root lesion nematode (Pratylenchus coffeae), Root knot nematode ( Meloidogyne incognita), Sprial nematode(Helicotylenchus multicinctus) Meloidogyne spp. Are sedentary endoparasites. Second stage juveniles emerge from the eggs, move towards the roots and penetrate the roots either at the root tip or in regions of previous penetration or where minor wounds are present.The eggs are laid within a gelatinous matrix to form an external egg sac or egg mass. A single sac contains several hundred eggs. Complete life cycle within four to six weeks Burrowing nematode – eggs are laid in the corms and roots.2 weeks are required for the life cycle to be completed. Female nematodes live 2 to 3 months and lay more than 100 eggs each. Nematode survive in the soil in the absence of suitable hosts Lesion nematode – Their life cycle takes less than 20 days when temperatures range from 25 degree C – 30 degree C Spiral Nematodes are robust with strong stylets. They live partially or completely within roots, feeding on the outer cortical cells. Meloidogyne incognita Nematode damaged corm Heterodera oryzicola Control Measures: Cultural Control The use of nematode-free planting material on uninfested land Trim the corm tissue until all black or discolored spots have been removed, leaving only clean white tissues Wash corms in running water, and allow them to dry before planting Submerge trimmed suckers for 20-25 minutes in hot water at 53-54°C. Grow nematode resistant varieties The planting tools should be cleaned before being used in the field Well decomposed manure should be used Crop rotation with non host crops Grow marigold in the inter space which serves as repellent and trap crop Covering the field for 6 to 8 weeks with plastic after tilling and watering raises the soil temperature Chemical Control Application of Furadan 3G @ 20 gms or Phorate 10g @ 12 gms or neem cake @ 1/2 Kg. per pit at planting. Trichoderma-viride Nimbecidine Banana intercrop with sunhemp Top of page Pseudostem Weevil,Odoiporus longicollis Nature of Damage Infestation of the weevil normally starts in 5 month old plants. Early symptoms of the infestation are the presence of small pinhead-sized holes on the stem Fibrous extrusions from bases of leaf petioles Adult weevils and exudation of a gummy substance from the holes on the pseudostem. During the advanced stages of infestation, when split open the stem, exhibits extensive tunnelling both in the leaf sheath and in the pseudostem Rotting occurs due to secondary infection of pathogens and a foul odour is emitted. When the true stem and peduncle are tunnelled after flowering, the fruits do not develop properly, presenting a dehydrated condition with premature ripening of the bunch itself. Small pin holes in pseudostem Blackened mass coming out from pseudostem Gummy exudation Identification of Pest Egg: Eggs are cream in colour and cylindrical in shape with rounded ends. The incubation period ranges from 3 to 8 days. Grub: The emerging larvae are fleshy, yellowish white and apodous. The larvae feed on tissues of the succulent sheath by tunnelling extensively and may reach as far as the true stem Pupa: Pupate in cocoon by winding short pieces of fibrous materials of the sheath around its body. The pupa is exarate and present inside the cocoon. Adult: The adult weevils are black-coloured and measure 23-39 mm. They often confine themselves within the pseudostem and in the decomposing tissues of harvested pseudostems. It has a long life span and many adults live for a year. Eggs Larva Adult Control Measures Cultural Control Uproot and burn infested plants. Planting material should be trimmed to reduce the number of eggs and grubs. After harvesting the bunch remove and destroy the pseudostem from ground level so as to avoid it serving as a breeding site for the pest. Avoid mattacking (leaving the plant after bunch harvest for recycling of nutrients) in weevil endemic areas. Prune the side suckers every month Use healthy and pest free suckers to check the incidence Do not dump infested materials into manure pit Apply mud slurry mixed with neem oil 5% on the pseudostem five month after planting in heavily infested areas to prevent oviposition Closely monitor the plants for the detection of oviposition punctureszxzsxz Chemical Control Application of Furadan 3G @ 20 gms or Phorate 10g @ 12 gms or neem cake @ 1/2 Kg. per pit at planting. Treat the cut end of the leaf petiole with Chlorpyriphos (2.5ml/lit) + 1 ml sticking agent After harvesting of banana bunch cut the tree at base and treat it with 100ml Carbaryl (2g/lit) or apply 10g Beauveria bassiana Biological Control Swab the cut surface of the longitudinal split traps with 20g of Beauveria bassiana fungus or Heterorhabditis indica nematode and the weevils die on their own due to infection Predatory ants such as big headed any and Tetramonrium spp. are important predators of the banana weevil. Dipping the suckers in 20% neem seed solution at planting Steinerma and Heterohabditis spp. attack both adults and grubs in the field. Mechanical Control Use Longitudinal Split Pseudostem Traps (LPST) – This traps (45cm long) are made from the pseudostem pieces cut longitudinally in two halves. Such traps are laid randomly in the field @ 25 traps per acre. Disc -on-stump traps and old pseudostems can be used for trapping weevils. Disc-on-stump traps consist of corn slices placed on top of harvested plants cut at the rhizome. Burning of infested Plants Stem injection with Moncrotophos Pseudostem Trap Top of page Fruit Rust Thrips Nature of damage: The early symptoms appear as water-soaked smoky areas where the colonies congregate to feed and oviposit between touching or adjacent fruit. These areas then develop the typical rusty-red to dark brown-black discolouration. Further rusty growth of the fruit and yellowing of leaves. While the taste and texture of the fruit within these peels remains unaffected, the exterior discoloration reduces the marketability of affected fruit. In severe cases the skin develops longitudinal cracks and sometimes fruit may split Fruit cracking or spliting Rusty red discolouration patches Yellowing of leaves Identification of pest: Egg: Eggs are not visible to the naked eye. Eggs are laid just below the fruit or pseudostem surface. In summer, eggs hatch in about eight days Larva: The wingless creamy white larvae are smaller but have the same shape as the adult. The larval period lasts about 8-10 days. Pupa: Pupae are white, 1 mm in length, similar to the larvae and can crawl. The pupal stage lasts 7-10 days Adult: The adult is slender, 1.5 mm long, creamy yellow to golden brown with delicate feathery wings. The front margin of the wings is made up of a fringe of black hairs and, when at rest, these give the adult thrips a characteristic longitudinal black stripe down the middle of the abdomen. Two eye-like dark patches at the base of the wings are characteristic of adult rust thrips. These patches can be used to distinguish from the smaller males of the banana flower thrips. Egg Pupa Adult Management: Cultural method: Use thrips-free planting material or tissue-cultured bananas and, if possible, hot water treatment prior to planting. Destroy all the volunteer plants and that could act as a source of thrips to spread to other plantings. Bunch covers (which cover the full length of the bunch) do provide some protection if applied very early. Regular checking of fruit under the bunch covers is essential to ensure that damage is not occurring. Biological method: Field release coccinelid predators such as lacewings and ladybird beetles exert some control over rust thrips on the plant, and ants may be effective in removing some of the pupae in the soil. Chemical method: Bunches, pseudostem and the suckers should be sprayed chlorpyriphos Soil application with Fipronil and Bifenthrin Lace wing bug Fipronil Removal of Weeds Top of page Rust thrips Symptoms of damage Yellowish spots on leaves Nymph and adult suck the plant sap and inject toxic saliva in the tissue Leaves with greyish yellow spots Stunted growth. Nymphs and adults presence on the lower surface of the leaves. Identification of the pest: Adult Nymphs – are yellow colour, occur in under surface Adult – yellow colour with minute fringed wings, seen in under surface of leaves Management Bud injection to control thrips Collect and destroy the damaged leaves, flowers and fruits along with life stages Spraying with dimethoate 30 EC - 850 ml/ha or phosphamidon 85 WSC - 300 ml/ha Use yellow sticky trap at 15/ha Top of page Castor hairy caterpillar, Pericallia ricini Symptoms of damage Caterpillar scraping the chlorophyll content and windowing in unfurled leaves. Identification of the pest Pericallia ricini Larva - Black with brown head having long brown hairs Adult - Grey coloured with dark spots on the pinkish hind wings. Management Collect and destroy egg masses and caterpillars Use burning torch to kill the congregating larvae Use light trap to attract and kill the adults Spray chlorpyriphos 20 EC or quinalphos 25 EC 2ml/lit Top of page Cut worm, Spodoptera litura Symptoms of damage Scrabbing of larvae Young larvae feed by scrapping the leaves from ventral surface Later on feed voraciously at night on the foliage. Identification of the pest Larva Adult Larva - Pale greenish brown with dark marking. Yellow and purplish spots in the sub marginal areas. Fore wing - Stout moth with wavy white markings on the brown. Hind wings - white having a brown patch along the margin. Management Hank pick and destroy the caterpillar Collect and destroy the damaged plant parts Summer ploughing to expose to the pupae Use light trap 1/ha Severe infestation – spot application of Bt Field release of egg parasitoid Telenomus spodopterae Telenomus remus Field release of entomopathogenic fungus, Nomuraea rileyi Top of page Banana beetle (Nodostoma subcostatum ) The adult beetles feed on the tender leaves and fruits and remain hidden under unfolded leaves. The infested fruits get spotted and their flavour is affected. Control Adopt practices for clean cultivation In case of severe infestation spray as in case of stem borer. Top of page Spiraling whitefly (Aleurodicus dispersus) Spiraling whitefly adults are small (2.0mm long), white and moth-like in appearance and mode of flight. When heavy infestations occur, the adult whitefly and immatures occur in dense populations on the undersides of the leaves of the host plant. These populations are generally covered in a heavy coating of white, curly 'wax' and a sugary secretion that is produced by the whitefly immatures. Spiraling whitefly is a pest of many horticultural crops, as well as an extensive range of ornamentals and shade trees. It originated in the Caribbean region of Central America, and spread rapidly through the Pacific after gaining establishment in Hawaii in 1978. Not a fly at all, but a relative of the bugs, spiraling whitefly derives its name from the characteristic egg spirals that the adult whitefly lays on foliage and fruit. Without its natural predators it has assumed major pest status. Symptoms Damage is mainly caused by the sap-sucking immature and adult whiteflies that feed on the underside of the foliage. Heavily infested plants soon develop a black sooty appearance from mould growing on the sugary secretions that the whitefly immatures excrete. This in combination with leaf damage reduces the plant's ability to photosynthesise and results in loss of plant production.Whiteflies can multiply at a great rate, producing thousands of individuals on a single plant, when natural biological agents are not present. Very high populations may result in defoliation, loss of production and in severe cases, death of the plant. Control measures A biological control agent (a parasitoid) was originally established in Torres Strait in 1992 by DPI&F entomologists from Brisbane. This parasitoid is a small, almost microscopic orange-coloured wasp that is host specific to the pest and has already successfully controlled pest populations in Torres Strait and Cape York Peninsula. Parasitoid stocks that have originated from this first establishment are now being used by DPI&F to successfully control mainland populations of spiraling whitefly, in particular those established in the northern tropics. Insecticidal control is not recommended as overseas experience indicates that spraying with insecticides has little long-term impact on the pest and may exacerbate the pest problem by destroying the biocontrol agents. Top of page Hard scale, Aspidiotus destructor Symptoms of damage Banana scale Banana scale Nymph and adult infest leaves, pseudostem and fruits Yellowing of leaves in patches. Stunted growth Identification of the pest Adult and crawlers Nymph - Oval translucent, Yellowish brown with waxy coating. Adult - Female circular, semi transparent and pale brown. Management Collect and destroy the affected plant parts Field release of coccinelid predators like Chilocorus nigritus, Symnus coccivora Top of page Scales (Coccus hesperidum) Scales cause damage by sucking the juices from the plants. Heavily infested plants appear unhealthy and produce little new growth. Scales feeding on the undersides of leaves may cause yellow spots to appear on the top sides, and these spots progressively become larger as the scales continue to feed. If the scales are not controlled, leaves will drop prematurely, sometimes killing portions of twigs and branches. Scales also feed on trunks and stems of plants. Cultural Control Sampling Inspect plants closely at weekly intervals, especially plants where scale problems have occurred in the past. Since scale insects may occur on all plant parts, every part of the plant must be checked. Leaves should be examined on both surfaces, and particularly along the midrib of the underside. The use of a 10X hand lens or magnifying glass will aid in their detection. Be sure plants are free of scales before they are placed in the production area of the nursery. Scales cannot fly; therefore they do not readily infest plants as do most other insects. Chemical Control Scales, especially armored scales are very difficult to control when mature. Spray applications should be timed to coincide with the crawler stage which is most susceptible to insectisides. Examine plants for live scales by crushing the wax cover. Dead scales do not fall from plants. Select pesticides that have the least effect upon other non-target organisms. For established infestations, apply a second application in two weeks. Horticultural oils are often effective and relatively safe on beneficial organisms. One or two applications of dormant oils should be applied to suppress established overwintering populations. Top of page Fruit and leaf scarring beetle (Colapsis hypochlora) The beetles feed on the young leaves and skin of young fruits. This insect sometimes live in the heart of the pseudostem within the roll of the central leaf. The beetles are mostly found during rainly season. The infested fruits fetch low market value in case of severe scarring of the fruit skin. Control Practice clean cultivation by removing the grass weeds from the banana plantations. In case of only serious damage caused by the beetles spray the plants with Aldrex 30 EC @ 0.25% ai or dust with Malathion dust. Top of page Banana Scale moth Adult of Banana Scale Moth Larva of Banana Scale Moth Nature of Damage Banana scale moth caterpillars feed on young leaves, which show scale like scars and refuse of larvae. Control Spray 0.07%. Malathion insecticide on banana seedlings Top of page White Grub Adult of White Grub Larva of White Grub White grub or root grub is the immature stage of Scarab beetles popularly known as cock chafers, leaf chafer, chafer beetle, May beetle or June beetle. Host Plants White Grub is a polyphagus pest and feed on almost all kharif season crops. It is widely seen in groundnut crop and chilies of sandy loam soil. White Grub are mainly observed during rainy season in nursery. Nature of Damage The white grub and adult feeds on the living roots and later adults feeds on shrubs and the trees like neem, khejri etc. growing near the nursery fields. The young grubs after hatching in the soil headed towards the roots and start feeding on them. Consequent to feeding, the plants show varying degree of yellowing, some get wilted and ultimately die. Such affected plants easily collapse. Control: Collect and destruct beetles in kerosene mixed water and using light traps / pheromone traps during night hours. Spray 0.0 % Carbaryl on the host plants. Deep ploughing of field is a good practice. Pre-sowing soil treatment with Phorate 10G or Quinalphos 5G or Carbofuran 3G @ 300 gm / gunta and treatment of planting materials with Chlorpyriphos @15-20 ml/kg of sukers. Application of Quinalphos or Chlorpyriphos at 400 ml / gunta with irrigation water in standing banana crop. Bio-control: Pathogenic nematode infecting white grub. Top of page Termites or White ants Types Termite Termite worker Host Plants Polyphagus pest of all nursery plants. Nature of Damage In loamy and light soils in dry areas where proper facilities for irrigation are not available, the termite infestation is more serious. The infestation of termite is more in rabbi season. Termites feed on cellulose in the roots of seedling. As a result of infestation, the leaves get dry and seedling can easily be pulled out. In later stage the whole seedling withers. Control Use of well decomposed organic manure. Remove dead and decaying organic matter or dry stubbles from field to avoid termite infestation. Irrigation protects the plants from termite. Treat soil with Quinalphos 1.5 % or methyl parathion 2 % dust @ 0.25 kg / gunta before planting Suckers. Seed treatment with Chlorpyriphos 20 EC @ 6 ml/kg seed or acephate 75SP @ 4 gm / kg seed. Apply Chlorpyriphos 20EC @ 400 ml / gunta with irrigation water. Top of page Nematodes Burrowing nematode (Radopholus similes) It is an endo parasite. The nematode enters the roots as well as corms and causes usually induce reddish brown cortical lesions which are characteristic feature of the disease. These lesions are clearly seen when an infected root is split longitudinally. Root and rhizome necrosis is manifested by the retarded growth, leaf yellowing and falling of mature plants. The lesioning of primary roots together with girdling and death of anchoring roots leads the plant prone to ‘tip over’ under wind pressure. Spiral nematode (Helicotylenchus multicinctus) This is an ecto as well as endo – parasite. The nematode causes very thin lesion on the roots. The development of feeder roots is affected in case of high population of nematodes in the soil. Root lesion nematode (Pratylenchus spp.) These are endoparasites and are very similar to R. similes in habit. In case of severe infestation the cortical region of the root is completely damaged and turns black in colour. Root knot nematodes (Meloidogyne spp.) They are endoparasites. They enter the roots remain inside and complete their life cycles. The infected roots exhibit charactesritic swellings and galls at the tips. Tin general the nematode affected plants exhibit pale yellow leaves with dried margins. In case of severe infestation the plants may fall off on slight push by hand or wind. Planting of infested suckers do not establish and delay growth. Checking of bunches, reduction in total weight and size of fruits are also encountered as a result of heavy infestation. Control Paring and pralinage Paring The pared sets should be dipped in a Bordeaux mixture – DBCP paste (made by mixing 20 kg hydrated lime, 20 kg copper sulphate, 1288 ml 70% DBCP and 455 litres of water) Pralinage The sets should be soaked for a few seconds in 550 ml DBCP plus 40 litres of clay for sets disinfection. This treatment completely coated the set in a persistent nematicidal preparation. In place of DBCP, Carbofuran can also be used @ 40 g / sucker at planting time and another application at the fourth month of crop growth. Use certified suckers free from nematodes. Sucker selection from disease infested field should be avoided Follow a suitable crop rotation Flood fallowing for about 5 months destroys not only the Fusarium but also the burrowing nematodes. Application of DBCP @ 40 l / ha at planting time (May and June) and 2.5 l / ha in October gave excellent control of nematodes (Luc and Vilardebo 1961) Application of D-D @ 300 l / ha and EDB @ 150 kg / ha significantly controls the nematodes and increases the yield but is costly. Suckers were trimmed and dipped in slurry solution and sprinkled with carbofuran @ 15 g per sucker. Carbofuran granules @ 20 g should be applied at the time of planting, 2nd and 4th month after planting. Before planting, neem cake and pungam cake @ 200 g should be applied per pit. Sun hemp and chrysanthemum should be grown 45 DAP of Banana and incorporated into the soil one month later. Marigold (Tagetes spp) grown as an intercrop cum trap crop in Banana field resulted in significant reduction of root lesion nematode population and increased the yield. Resistant varieties should be grown. Top of page Disease management Anthracnose Banana Bract Mosaic Bunchy top Ciger End Rot Erwinia Rot Mosaic Panama Wilt Yellow Sigotoka Anthracnose Nature of damage The fungus attacks the young banana fruits usually at the distal end At the initial stage, small, circular, black spots develop on the affected fruits. Then these spots enlarge in size, turn to brown colour The skin of the fruit turns black and shrivels and becomes covered with characteristic pink acervuli. Finally the whole finger is affected. Later the disease spreads and affects the whole bunch. The disease results in premature ripening and shriveling of the fruits which are covered with pink spore masses. Occurrence if black lesions on the pedicel causes withering of the pedicel and dropping of the fingers from the hands Sometimes the main stalk of the bunch may become diseased. Infected fruits become black and rotten Dark brown patches on immature fruits Fruit turns black and shrivel Whole bunch turns black Identification of pathogen Acervuli are usually rounded or sometimes elongated, erumpent. Conidiophores are cylindrical, tapered towards the apex, hyaline, septate, branched and sub-hyaline towards the base, each with a single terminal phialidic aperture Conidia are hyaline, aseptate, oval to elliptical or straight cylindrical, obtuse apices or flattened at base and obtuse at the apex, guttulate. The spread of the disease is by air-borne conidia and numerous insects which frequently visit banana flowers also spread the disease The disease is favoured by high atmospheric temperature and humidity, wounds and brusies caused in the fruit and susceptibility of the variety Gloesosporium musarum Conidiophores Control Measures Cultural Control Burn the infected materials Proper field sanitation Practice crop rotation with paddy or sugarcane Keep the field free of weeds and provide good drainage Fruit should be free from infection and as possible before it is transported, stored and ripened Banana bunches should be harvested at correct stage of maturity. Proper fertilization prevents the infection Chemical Control Protective spraying when the fruit is still young with Bordeaux mixture 1% Pre-harvest spray with Prochloroz 0.2% or Carbendazim 0.1% or Chlorothalonil 0.2% four times at fortnightly interval is highly effective Post harvest dipping of fruits in mycostatin 440 ppm or Aureofunginsol 100 ppm or Carbendazim 400 ppm or Benomyl 1000 ppm Mechanical Control The distal bud should be removed when all the hands opened to prevent infection After harvest, the bunches should be transported to the store house without causing any bruises to them. The transported bunches should be stored carefully at 7 to 10 degree c. Avoid contamination in collecting places, during transport and in ripening rooms Proper fertilization Chlorothalonil Avoid contamination at collecting place Top of Page Banana Bract Mosaic Nature of damage The disease is characterized by the presence of spindle shaped pinkish to reddish streaks on pseudostem, midrib and peduncle Typical mosaic and spindle shaped mild mosaic streaks on bracts, peduncle and fingers also observed Suckers exhibit unusual reddish brown streaks at emergence and separation of leaf sheath from central axis Clustering of leaves at crown with a travelers palm appearance, elongated peduncle and half filled hands are its characteristic symptom Reddish streaks on pseudostem Mosaic streak on bracts Dark streaks on midrib of leaf Identification of pathogen The disease is caused by a virus belonging to potyvirus group. The virions are flexuous filamentous The virus is transmitted through aphid vectors such as Aphis goosypii, Pentolonia nigronervasa and Rhopalosiphum maidis. In field the disease spread mainly through suckers Aphis gossypii Potyvirus Control measures Cultural Control The diseased plants should be removed as and when noticed to avoid the spread of the disease Disease free planting materials should be used for new planting The banana gardens should be kept free from weeds Weeds in the nearby areas should be removed as the virus survives in them in off-season Early detection by regular inspection of planting and eradication of diseased plants from the field as soon as they are noticed Selection of healthy suckers Diseased plant should be uprooted Phosphomidon Top of Page Bunchy Top Nature of Damage Initially, dark green streaks appears in the veins of lower portion of the leaf midrib and the leaf stem Dark green, hook-like extensions of the leaf lamina veins can be seen in the narrow, light-green zone between the midrib and the lamina. On mature plants infected with BBTV, new leaves emerge with difficulty, are narrower than normal, are wavy rather than flat, and have yellow (chlorotic) leaf margins. They appear to be “bunched” at the top of the plant, the symptom for which this disease is named. Severely infected banana plants usually will not fruit, but if fruit is produced, the banana hands and fingers are likely to be distorted and twisted. Bunchy appearance of leaves Bunchy appearance of matured plants Yellowing of leaf margin Identification of Pathogen The virus is an isometric particle measure 20nm in diameter. It is ssDNA virus belonging to Nanoviridae family and babu virus genus. The virus has multi component genome There are six circular single stranded genomes known to be established The virus concentration is more present in phloem It is transmitted by infected suckers and banana aphid Microscopic view of bunchy top virus Control Measures Cultural Control Use virus free planting materials Remove and rouging of infected banana plants Chop,dry and bury the infected plants Maintain clean, weed free field for early detection of infested suckers Avoid banana cultivation in sugarcane and cucurbitaceous areas as sugarcane mosaic virus or cucurbit mosaic virus can easily spread to banana Chemical Control The diseased trees should be injected with 4 ml of Fernoxone solution(50g in 400 ml of water) Insertion of Fernoxone capsules (containing 200 to 400 mg of chemical per capsule) into the pseudostem by using the banana injector or capsule applicator Virus free planting materials Remove the affected plants Capsule application of Feronoxone Top of Page Cigar End Rot Nature of Damage The pathogen affects even the immature fruits. The upper portion of the peduncle is exposed to the hot sun, when the bunch emergence occurs during summer months and due to reduced functional leaves reduced The infection, which occurs in perianth, spreads to fingers causing blackening of the skin, shrinkage and folding of the tissues. The affected tissues are corrugated and covered with fungus conidiophores and powdery grey conidia resembling ash on a cigar end. Dry rot also occurs in the pulp and the affected tissues become dry and fibrous. Warm and moist conditions favour the disease occurrence and the disease spread is high in old and badly maintained plantations. Black necrosis at the tip of fruit Blackening of skin Presence of powdery ash Identification of Pathogen Conidiophores are solitary or in small groups. Conidia are hyaline, oblong to cylindrical. They are borne at the ends of tapering phialides, aggregated into rounded, mucilaginous translucent heads. Verticillium theobromae Conidiophores Control Measures Cultural Control Young bunches should be opened up to the light and air and the bracts which remain attached to the bunch should be removed especially during wet weather The plantations should have enough aeration by avoiding overcrowding of plants Improved sanitation helps in the reduction of the disesase By placing polythene sleeves over the stems before hands emerge Chemical Control The bunches may be sprayed with Copper oxychloride 0.25 per cent solution along with a wetting agent @ 0.5 to 1.0 ml per litre of spray fluid Spraying of the peduncle with Carbendazim at 0.1% or Dithane M-45 at 0.1% after shoot emergence Mechanical Method Removal of pistil and perianth by hand immediately after the fruits are formed. Pistils should be removed 8 to 11 days after bunch emergence. Field sanitation Removal of pistal Copper oxychloride Top of Page Erwinia Rot Nature of Damage This disease is more pronounced on young suckers leading to rotting and emitting of foul odour Roting of collar region is a commonest symptom followed by epinasty of leaves, which dry out suddenly If affected plants are pulled out it comes out from the collar region leaving the corm with their roots in the soil Splitting of pseudostem is common in late stage of infection in cultivars Robusta, Grand Naine and Thella Chakkerakeli When affected plants are cut open at collar region yellowish to reddish ooze is seen In early stage of infection dark brown or yellow water soaked areas are more in the cortex area In advance stage the interiror lesions may decay to such extent that cavities surrounded by dark spongy tissues are formed This soft rotting may spread radially towards growing point through the cortical tissues. The rotten corm emits foul smell Rotting of collar region spilliting of pseudostem sudden drying of leaves Identification of Pathogen The pathogen is a Gram-negative bacterium with peritrichous flagella and it is a rod shaped bacterium that lives alone or aggregates into pairs and chains The pathogen is soil borne and enters through wounds and also through leaf sheath of suckers The disease can be spread by infected plant debris, plant wounds and injuries. Hot and damp weather with plenty of rainfall trigger the disease to occur. Water is required for the bacteria to invade into the plant peritrichous flagella Control Measures Cultural Control Good drainage and soil conditioning can control the disease to some extent. Plant disease free suckers. Remove infected plants immediately. Remove plant residues after harvest. Practice crop rotation by using crops that are not susceptible to the bacterial rot disease like soyabean, forage legumes and small grains. Banana should not be grown along with onion and other vegetables. Control nematodes and other insect pests that serve as vectors of the bacteria to invade the plant tissues. Use of rhizomes with dead central buds and active lateral buds prevents the appearance of the disease. Avoid planting during rainy season and use of bigger suckers (more than 500g) for planting. Chemical Control Drench with Methoxy Ethyl Mercuric Chloride (Emisan-6) 0.1 / or Sodium hypochlorite 10% or Bleaching powder 20g /litre/tree. Drench suckers 2% bleaching powder to control the disease in field at planting followed by another drenching the soil after 3rd month of planting to control the pathogen. Drench suckers with bleaching powder use healthy sucker Good drainage & well soil condition Top of Page Mosaic Virus Nature of damage The disease is characterized by the presence of typical mosaic-like or discontinuous linear streaking in bands extending from margin to midrib. Rolling of leaf margins, twisting and bunching of leaves at the crown and a rigid erectness in newly emerged leaves The presence of dead or drying suckers is noticed in advanced cases referred as heart rot resulting from rotting of heart leaf and central portion of pseudostem Primarily infected banana plants develop severe mosaic symptoms in young growth showing broadly streaked chlorotic or yellowish green bands and patches or chlorotic mottling distributed in patches over the leaf lamina The leaves are narrower and smaller than normal and the infected plants are dwarf and lag behind in growth. Such plants do not produce bunches but as a virus reservoir Mosaic appearance of leaf Bunch of leaves at crown Heart leaf get rot Identification of pathogen The casual agent of this disease is Cucumber mosaic virus(CMV). The virus is isometic, linear positive sense and single stranded RNA. The RNA is surrounded by a protein coat consisting of 32 copies of single structural protein which form isometric particles The primary transmission is through use of infected daughter suckers from diseased palnts and the secondary spread of the disease is through melon aphid, Aphis gossypii and Aphids maidis Potyvirus Aphis gossypii Control Measures Cultural Control The banana gardens should be kept free from weeds Infected suckers should not be used for planting Weeds in the nearby areas should be removed as the virus survives in them in off-season Growing pumpkin, cucumber and other cucurbits between the rows of banana crop should be avoided Dry heat treatment of suckers at 40 degree C for one day inactivated the virus Early detection by regular inspection of planting and eradication of diseased plants from the field as soon as they are noticed Use of high input crop management of system comprising of 10 kg farm yard manure at the time of planting and subsequently at an interval of 3 months. 1 kg neem cake, 200 gm nitrogen, 40 gm phosphorus, 200 gm potassium per plant, 4 weeding at 2 months interval up to 8 months stage Chemical Control Spraying Methyl Demeton 0.03 per cent (0.3 ml/lit of water) at 3 to 4 weeks interval controls the vector and reduces the spread of the disease Foliar spray of micronutrient (0.2% CuSo4(2ml/lit), 0.2% FeSo4(2ml/lit), 0.5% ZnSo4(5 ml/lit) and 0.1% H3Bo3(1 ml/lit of water) at 3,5 and 7th month after planting and spraying Glyphosate 2Kg per hectare to control weeds Control of insect vector by spraying Phosphomidon at 1 ml per litre or methyl demeton at 2 ml per litre Demeton Weeds free field Proper nutrient management Top of Page Panama Wilt Nature of Damage Externally, the first obvious signs of disease in most varieties are wilting and a light yellow colouring of the lower leaves, most prominent around the margins. They eventually turn a bright yellow colour with dead leaf margins. In the advanced stages of disease, affected plants may have a spiky appearance due to prominent upright apical leaves in contrast to the skirt of dead lower leaves. Internally, symptoms first become obvious in the xylem (water conducting) vessels of the roots and the rhizome. These turn a reddish-brown to maroon colour as the fungus grows through the tissues. When a cross-section is cut, the discolouration appears in a circular pattern around the centre of the rhizome where the infection concentrates due to the arrangement of the vessels. As symptoms progress into the pseudo-stem, continuous lines of discolouration are evident when the plant is cut longitudinally Yellowing and withering of leaves Complete withering of leaves Vascular discoloration in pseudostem Identification of Pathogen The casual organism is Fusarium oxysporum f.sp.cubense. This pathogen contains colonies of white to purple pigemented mycelium. Hyphae are septate and hyaline. Conidiaphores are short and simple and having macroconidia and microconidia Macroconidia usually produced abundantly, slightly sickle-shaped, thin-walled, with an attenuated apical cell and a foot-shaped basal cell. They are three to 5-septate measuring 23-54 x 3-4.5 µm. Microconidia are abundant, mostly non-septate, ellipsoidal to cylindrical, slightly curved or straight, 5-12 x 2.3-3.5 µm occurring in false heads from short monophialides. The disease is soil borne and the fungus enters the roots through the fine laterals. The disease incidence The incidence is high in acid alluvial soils. The pathogen is easily spread by infected rhizomes or suckers, farm implements or vehicles, irrigation water Fusarium oxysporium in situ Fusarium oxysporium - Macroconida Fusarium oxysporium – Microcoinidia Control Measures Cultural Control Practice proper crop rotation with paddy/sugarcane once or twice followed by banana for 2-3 cylces Plant wilt resistant cultivars such as Poovan and Nendran in endemic areas Avoid susceptible varieties such as Rasthali, Monthan, Karpuravalli, Kadali, Rasakadali, Pachanadan etc. Remove and destroy infested plant material after harvest When only 1-3 plants are infected, kill and chop up the diseased plants and stew all the material in water at a temperature of at least 70 deg C for 30 minutes. Grow healthy plants with proper fertilization, irrigation, weed control Provide good drainage especially during rainy season Soil application of rice chaffy grain or dried banana leaf formulation or well decomposed compost around the plants Chemical Control Application of 2 per cent of Carbendazim as injection of Carbendazim 50 ml capsule application Paring (pralinge removal of roots and outer skin of corm) and dipping of the suckers in a solution containing 0.2 per cent Carbendazim + 14 ml of per litre of water. Instead of Monoctophos the suckers may be dipped in clay slurry and sprinkled with Carbofuran granules at 40g/corm Soil drenching of Carbendazim 0.2 per cent solution alternated with Propiconozole 0.1% around the pseudostem at bimonthly intervals starting from five months after planting Application of urea + sugarcane trash (250g/pit) followed by lime (1Kg/pit) and neem cake (1-2Kg/pit) Application of neem cake @ 250 Kg/ha was most effecgtive in controlling Fusarium wilt in Rasthali cultivar Biological Control Application Pseudomonas fluorescens a bactericide can also be applied along with farmyard manure and neem cake. About 60 mg of Pseudomonas (in a capsule) can be applied in a 10 cm deep hole made in the corm. Application of bio control agents like Trichoderma viride @ 25 g for 4 times once at the time of planting in the planting pit and remaining doses at third, fifth and seventh month after planting Application of T.harzianum Th-10, as dried banana leaf formulation @ 10g/platn in basal + top dressing on 2,4,and 6 months after planting Dipping the planting materials in spore suspension of P.fluorescens at 10g per plant at 3,5 and 7 months after planting Mechanical Control Machinery and equipment should be treated with a sanitary solution such as Farmcleanse® Footwear, which may have contacted banana plants or soil around banana plants elsewhere, should not be worn on the farm. No agricultural vehicles, tools (including shovels, knives and ladders) or equipment should be removed from, or brought on to, the farm without prior approval from management. Provide mechanical barriers in and around the infected plants Crop rotation with paddy Burning of wastes Top of Page Yellow Sigotoka Nature of Damage Initially, appearance of pale yellow or greenish streaks parallel to the veins on the upper surface of the leaves Then these streaks darken and become more or less elliptical brown spots. Later on, the centre of these spots turns to light grey colour surrounded by yellow halo The spots often coalesce to form large irregular patches of dried tissue Rapid drying and defoliation of leaves are the characteristic feature of this disease Normally 15-18 leaves are necessary at the time of shooting for bunch development, but due to Sigatoka leaf spot it is difficult to maintain 15 leaves In severe cases, immature bunches fail to fill out The fingers of bunch in affected plants tend to remain undersized and angular but pulp starts ripening Pale yellow streaks on the upper surface of leaves Centre of the spots turns to grey colour Rapid drying and defoliation of leaves Identification of Pathogen This disease is caused by Mycospharella musicola fungus by the characteristics of the conidia and conidiophores The conidiophores are bottle shaped and bear conidia. Conidia are narrow and multiseptate Perithecia are dark brown to balck, amphiceous, erumpent, ostiolate Asci are oblong, clavate. Ascopores are one septate, hyaline, obtuse-ellipsoid with upper cell slightly broader The conidia of the fungus are carried by wind ,rain water and old dried infected leaves and they help to spread the disease Microscopic view of Mycospharella musicola Control Measures Cultural Control Removal and destruction of affected leaves. Keep the banana field as weed free and remove the suckers timely. Avoid planting at close spacing. Provide proper drainage and avoid water logging in the fields which favours infection. Chemical Control Spray Bordeaux mixture 1 per cent + linseed oil 2 per cent on the plants. Spray Copper oxychloride or Zineb with gas oil or mobile oil or white oil. Spray 3 times with Carbendazim 0.1 per cent or Propicanozole 0.1 % or Mancozeb 0.25% or Calixin 0.1% and teepol (sticking agent) at 10-15 days interval, as the disease starting from initial appearance of leaf specks in lower side of the leaf. Removal of affected leaves Weed free field Mancozeb fungicide Top of Page Non Insect Pests Giant African Snails (Achatina fulica Bowtich) Symptoms African snails Banana leaves holes Feeds the leaves and make holes Snails feeding banana pseudostem and petiole External feeding on foliage and fruits. Affected plant stages - .Seedling stage, vegetative stage and fruiting stage. Affected plant parts - Leaves and fruits. Infest 41 locations in four districts in Kerala state. Palakkad has been identified as the most vulnerable district with the study predicting attack in 22 locations. Puthunagaram, Kodumbu, Peruvembu, Mundur, Puthuppariyaram, Marutha Road, Kannadi, Koduvayur, Chittur-Thathamangalam, Mathur, Pirayiri, Vadavannur and Thenkurissi are some of the vulnerable areas in the district Identification of pest Snail Eggs Banana African Snails Banana African Snails Giant East African Snail has a narrow, conical shell, which is twice as long as it is wide and contains 7 to 9 whorls when fully grown. The shell is generally reddish-brown in colour with weak yellowish vertical markings Life expectancy is commonly five or six years in captivity, but the snails may live for up to ten years. They are active at night and spend the day buried underground. It is an obligate-outcrossing hermaphrodite, which means that one externally fertilised snail can establish a population . Fulica produces large eggs that are 4.5 to 5.5 mm in diameter and only hatch at temperatures above 15°C. Snails begin laying eggs at six months of age and fecundity lasts approximately 400 days. Their eggs are laid in batches of 100-400 and are spherical to oval in shape, approximately 5 mm in diameter and cream to yellow in colour. Dependent on the temperature, the babies will hatch in anything from 5 to 21 days. Snails mature at around 5 to 15 months, depending on the temperature (with cold winter temperatures inducing hibernation and delaying sexual maturity). The snails, which live up to six years in favourable conditions The infestation was found to be intense in areas with high population density. Areas with untreated garbage and places of water logging are their favourite spots Control measures Crop rotation, enhancement of soil quality, choice of resistant varieities, water management, providing mechanical barriers, post harvest treatment Practice good field sanitation Use of calcium arsenate and Metaldehyde under expert supervision in areas of high infestation. Use of salt to kill the pest as it alters the soil pH The application of salt will become untenable during rainy days The meat of the snails thus killed will rot with foul smell Release predators like predatory snail (Euglandina rosea), flatworms (Platydemus manokwari) and pathogens in the field Metal salt-based molluscicides as snail baits and snail pellets. These are derived from iron phosphate, copper sulphate and aluminium sulphate. They are not toxic to humans and animals (In organic culture, consult your certification body before use) Rats (Rattus exulans) Symptoms Banana Rat Rat feeding injury on fruits Rats nest on banana bunch Feeding injury on young banana bunches and fingers Clawing damage on fruits Make nests in banana bunches Identification of non pest Pacific rat D Vietch Comparatively small in size, weighs 2 to 3 ounces, and measures 4 to 5 inches long. The tail is as long as or slightly longer than head and body combined; bristles along the tail give the appearance of faint, narrow rings. The body color is cinnamon-brown to cinnamon-buff to grey with stiff black guard hairs on back and sides; the underside is light buff or grey. The nose is roundly pointed, ears rather short, eyes medium size, hind feet dark on underside. Females have four pairs of nipples. It nests in burrows, gulches, rock piles, rock walls, wastelands, fields, and embankments. It causes great damage to sugarcane, banana, pineapple, coconuts, coffee, and other fruit and vegetable crops. Management Remove access to food, water, or shelter, or limit rat accessibility; traps; trim overhanging trees away from coffee plants; cats and dogs. bananas should be harvested just before or at the first sign of rat damage, then hung upside-down in a rat-free environment until ripe. Rodenticides are the most effective means of controlling large and small rodent populations. Strict safety precautions should be used in the preparation, broadcast, or placement and disposal of poison baits for rodents. Ants (Anoplolepsis longipes) Symptoms Formic acid damage to young banana bunches and fingers Ant Damage Ant Damage Some ant species associated with banana bunches can cause significant damage to young fruits, especially when colonies of the ants on bunches are disturbed or agitated by bunch spraying or by bumping into plants and causing vibration disturbance to the ants. The disturbed ants eject formic acid from their abdomens as a defense reaction. The formic acid, with a pH of 2-3, burns the tender skins of the young fingers, leaving irregularly shaped, blackened areas on the fruits that expand as the fruits expand. Identification of insect Banana Ants under old banana sheat Eggs: Eggs hatch in 18 to 20 days. Larvae: Worker larvae develop in 16 to 20 days. Pupae Queen pupae develop in 30 to 34 days, where worker pupae require about 20 days. Adults: Adults are reddish-yellow and with a long slender body measuring approximately 1/6 inch in length. The abdomen is often darker than the head and thorax. This is a monomorphic species; workers are similar in appearance regardless of their duty within the colony. Control measures Ant baits mixed with insecticides and spraying are effective in managing this pest. Top of page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Farm Implements Tillage Implements Chisel Plough Special Features : Suitable for deep tillage up to a depth of 40 cm for opening hard soil pan Easily operated by any 35 -45 hp tractor Specifications : Type : Mounted implement. Over all dimensions : 450 x 940 x1250 mm Weight : 42 kg. Capacity : 1.4 ha per day at a spacing of 1.5 m between rows. Cost of the unit : Rs. 8500/- Chisel Plough Chisel Plough General information : The chisel plough has a sturdy but light structure made of 3mm thick hollow rectangular tubular mild steel sections. The implement is simple in construction and has only three components namely frame, standard and share. The share has a lift angle of 20 degree, width of 25mm and length of 150mm. The implement is protected by shear pin which prevents damage from overloading. Disc Plough Special Features: It is specially used for primary tillage and useful in hard and dry, trashy, stony or stumpy land conditions and in soil where scouting is a major problem. Disc Plough Disc Plough Specifications: Type : Tractor mounted Power requirement : 25-50 hp tractor Weight : 236-376 Kg Number of furrows : 2 Disc size : 600-800 mm Working depth : up to 300 mm. Cultivator Special Features: It is used for ploughing, seed bed preparation, interculturing and puddling purposes It is mounted type and is controlled by the hydraulic system of the tractor. Cultivator Cultivator Specifications: Type : Tractor mounted. Power requirement : 35 hp tractor. Number of tynes : 9-13. Working depth : 140-170 mm. Capacity : 0.35 -0.5 hectare per hour. Weight : 120-30 Kg. Rotavator Features It is used in dry as well as wet land cultivation for pulverizing of soil. Rotavator Rotavator Specifications : Type : Tractor operated Power source : 35 or above hp, tractor Working depth : 1000-2000 mm Weight : 280-415 Kg Revolution of rotor shaft : 210-237 rpm Shape of blade : L- shape Thickness of blade : 7-10 Diameter of rotar shaft : 70-90 mm. Laser Leveller Function : For leveling and smoothening of soil surface. Laser Leveller Specifications : Working width : 7 feet Bucket Height : 23n * 27n Body Sheet : 8mm Blade 12mm Type 6-6 with heavy hub Double tyre Height Assembly : 9 foot Over all Dimensions : 9*7*12 foot Hyd. Cylinder : 1'4" Operating Voltage : 12 volt Laser Range : 900 meter(Dia) Cost of the Unit : 3,65,000. Special Features : Save water upto 50%. Save time upto 50%. Easy Cultivation facility. Save Diesel and Money. Ultimately increased crop yield. Planting Implements Digger Function : To dig holes for planting tree saplings. Specification : Type : Screw auger type Power requirement : 8 to 10 hp power tiller Overall dimensions : 400 x 635 x 1635 mm Weight : 50 kg Capacity : x 25 -30 holes per hour Digger Digger General Information: It consists of a spiral auger of 225 mm dia and 100 mm pitch actuated by a rack and pinion arrangement. The hand wheel provided at the side of the unit can be used for the depth control. For increased size of holes, replaceable type larger diameter auger bits of 250, 275 and 300mm can be used. A balancing frame attached to the hitch bracket assembly in the rear and a support wheel fitted in the front portion of the unit counter the down suction offered by the auger while digging, ensure easy movement in the field, reduction of drudgery and easy manoeurvability. Cost of the unit : Rs. 20,000/- Manufacturer : TNAU, Coimbatore. Intercultural Implements Rotary Weeder Function : For mechanical control of weeds in orchards. Rotary Weeder Rotary Weeder Specification : Type : Self propelled. Power requirement : 8.38 hp Diesel engine. Overall dimensions : 2400 x 1750 x 1100 mm Weight : 200 Kg . Capacity : 1 - 1.2 ha per day Cost of the unit: : Rs. 65,000 Salient features : Useful for weeding between rows spacing is than 45 cm.Attachments like sweep blades, ridger, trailer can be used with the machine. Mini Power Tiller Function : For weeding and intercultural operations. Mini Power Tiller Specification : Type : Power operated Power requirement : 5.5 HP Diesel engines. Over all dimension : Blade width- 250 or 300 or 350 mm Ground wheels : 300 mm diameter Weight : 70 Kg Capacity : 1 ha per day Cost of the Unit : 35,000. Salient features : The machine is available with three types of weeding tools including sweep blade, junior hoe and rotary blades. It can also be used with other attachments. Such as single bottom ridger for forming ridges and furrows in garden land to facilitate sowing of seed. Plant Protection Implements Tractor Mounted Sprayers Function : For spraying herbicides, pesticides, liquid fertilizers. Specifiactions: Type : Tractor mounted Power requirement: RPM : 1200 Weight : 120 Kg Tank Capacity : 600,1000,1200,1500 liters Tractor Mounted Sprayers Special Features: It is available with tank capacities of 1000, 1200 and 1500 litres and boom widths up to 24m. The compact, close coupled design keeps the sprayer as close as possible to the tractor. Power Operated Sprayer Mistblower Special Features : Mistblower Effective and quick application of pesticides in liquid forms, orchards, banana,field crops, tea, coffee estates and other crops. Dynamically balanced aluminum rotor. Back cushion and padded shoulder straps. Air velocity : 249 ft/sec. 1.2 HP petrol engine. Available with high power HP35. Knapsack Sprayer Knapsack Sprayer Sprayer is suitable for orchards, vegetables,banana etc. It also has a larger capacity and is mostly used for commercial applications. The steady pumping of the knapsack sprayer creates a more steady and uniform stream that results in better application of the contents. 6 liters capacity tank moulded from virgin high density polyethylene. Brass Pressure Chamber and Bottom Well . Sturdy construction and easy operation . Can be operated with left or right hand . Develops sufficient and continuous pressure . Mechanical Chemical Agitator. Harvest and Post Harvest Implements Banana Cutter Banana Cutter Banana Cutter CIPHET Banana-Comb/hand Cutter will help to maintain smooth cutting curve of banana-comb, there will be no finger damage during cutting (as in case of knife or sickle cutting, some banana-finger getting damaged) and there will be no injury to human by this tool. This tool is suitable for all sizes of banana bunch stems. Manually placing the tool and putting little pressure from top achieves cutting. CIPHET Banana-Comb/hand Cutter maintains smooth cutting curve of banana-comb/hand, with no fruit damage during cutting (as in case of knife or sickle cutting, some banana-finger getting damaged). One person is required to perform the banana-comb/hand cutting activity with less stress. This tool will save 10 to 15 banana-fingers per bunch (i. e. 2 to 8 % reduction in cutting losses of banana fruits) by using CIPHET Banana-comb/hand cutter. The price of each tool is Rs.200 including packaging and forwarding charges. Banana Ripening Chamber Function: Used for ripening of bananas Banana Ripening Chamber Special features: Fruit ripening have a 5 day cycle period. These are specially built gas tight rooms having systems for controlling humidity, temperature and concentration of CO2 & Ethylene. Banana ripening is possible through these methods: By using ethylene generator. By a fully automatic centralized ripening system with Ethylene Gas Cylinder. By a semi automatic centralized ripening system with Ethylene Gas Cylinder. Vaccum Packaging of Banana Salient features To pack and store the banana to delay ripening The vacuum packaged banana can be stored without ripening upto 21 days. No residues of chemicals are found. The quality is not affected. Vaccum Packaging Vaccum Packaging Specification : Power required : 0.5 hp for the vacuum packaging machine. Cost of the unit (Approx) : Rs. 1,50,000 (cost of the vacuum packaging machine) Cost of operation : Rs. 15/h General Information Banana ripes in three to five days after harvesting. Ripening during the long distance transport and export, results in huge post harvest losses. To delay ripening of fruits, vacuum packaging is one of the methods, where the matured banana hands are packaged and prevented from contact with air/ oxygen. Using a simple gadget for vacuum packaging, banana can be stored under vacuum. This delays ripening upto 21 days and further ripening is completed with in one week after opening the package. Banana Harvestor Banana Harvestor Banana Harvestor Mechanical harvesting requires the produce must be located at a point where it the inherent rigidity in mechanical solutions can be overcome The Banana Harvester is based on the principle that when the Centre of Mass is displaced, there is a resultant moment (rotational motion). Mechanical harvesting is that it removes the bunch without damaging the plant. The stalk can then also be harvested to produce fibre, giving farmers a second income from each plant, and reducing waste caused by discarding the tree. Clump Remover Function : To remove banana clumps Clump Remover Clump Remover Specification : Type : Tractor mounted Capacity : 4 ha / day Cost of the unit : (approx) Rs.10,000/- Cost of operation : Rs.500 / ha Salient features : A tractor operated implement to remove banana clumps. Labour required : 2 (1 driver + 1 helper). Savings in time : 85% Savings in labour : 90% Processing Implements Banana Fibre Extracting Machine Banana Fibre Extracting Machine It is a simple and efficient machine to extract fibre from Banana stems. It is very user friendly. Anyone can operate it with a training of just 30 minutes. This machine reduces the drudgery of manual extraction of fibre and provides a clean working environment. It will help the workers to produce more fibres and get increased income. The machine consists of a rigid steel frame in which Banana Fibre extracting rotor rotates in the plummer block bearings. Rotor has been fitted with 10 numbers of chromium blades and can be adjusted in any angle. Fibre can be extracted in all types of banana Pseudo Stems, Leaf Stalks and Flower Stalks During fibre extracting process to clean and remove the musk two stage brushes are provided. These cleaning brushes can be easily removed and cleaned. 50 kg fibre can be extracted in 8 hrs shift in a day. Maintenance cost is very low. The entire rotating elements are driven by a half H.P. electric motor. So, the electric consumption will be very less. Total weight of the machine is 80 kg. Banana Peeling Machine Function: For peeling of bananas. A banana peeling machine in which the skin of a banana is engaged by impinging spikes on the periphery of three resiliently supported rotatable wheels with separating and cutting means adjacent a narrowest gap location to assist the skin being pulled away from the flesh to effect peeling of the banana. Banana Fibre Extracting Machine Specifications: Power required : 1 HP electric motor Size of peeler machine : 450 mm ( Length ) X 400 mm (Width) X 875 mm ( Height) Production Capacity : 250/350Kg per hour Weigh : approximately 88 kilogram Special features: Unique and Reliable Design All contacting Parts are Stainless Steel no corrosions hazards Increased production leading to faster return on the investments All Rotating parts are dynamical balanced for less vibration & higher performances. low temperature peeling technology thus the original ingredient cannot destroy. Top of page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Harvest & Post Harvest Technology Harvest Post Harvest Technology Harvest Harvest The dwarf bananas are ready for harvest within 11-14 months after planting, while tall cultivars take about 14-16 months to harvest. A bunch usually takes90-120 days to mature after shooting. The maturity of banana is indicated by drying of top leaves, change in colour of fruits from dark green to light green and tendency of the floral end of the fruit to fall by slightest touch by hand. The mature fruit becomes plumpy and all the angles are filled in completely. When tapped the fruit gives metallic sound. Methods Low growing varieties are harvested by cutting through the bunch stalk about 30-35 cm above the top hand. With taller varieties, the stem of the plant will be partly cut through to bring the bunch down within the harvester's reach. YIELD Top of page Post Harvest Technology Dehandling After harvest, dehandling should be carried out with a sharp, clean Banana knife, making a smooth cut as close as possible to the stem. After dehandling, the fruits are placed with the crown facing downwards onto a layer of leaves to allow for latex drainage. In order to restrict crown disease development, the hands should be dipped in a solution of 0.1% Benlate or Thiabendazole Stowing After harvest banana bunches are arranged in rows with the cut ends of pedicel upward, called stowing Stowing is required at two stages. Soon after harvest, the bunches re stowed in the field usually overa bed of banana leaves. Before a carriage arrives, harvested bunches continue to remain stowed in this condition which pave way to spread of inoculums to healthy sites During transport and at the wholesalers god own the bunches are again stowed before sending them to ripening room. During stowing the fruits are invariably subjected to mechanical or insect injury in addition to the spread of pathogens carried from field in latent condition or prevalent under local condition of storage. Top of page Packaging The arrangement of fruits in box has to be horizontal in two rows keeping crown end towards box side and fruit tips towards the center of the box While packing in single layer, the hands should be placed in the vertical positions by keeping their tips up and crown downside. Cushioning pads or kraft paper should be placed at the bottom of the box and fruit may be covered in LDPE liner of 100 gauges inside the box to create modified atmosphere. Top of page Precooling The fruit destined for the distant and export market should be precooled considerably for extending the storage life. Precooling of the produce should be done within 10 - 12 hrs of bunch harvesting. The fruit packed in boxes should be precooled by forced air cooling at 13° C and 85 - 90% RH. It may take 6 to 8 hrs to bring the fruit pulp temperature to 13° C from field temperature of 30° C to 35° C. The boxes should be immediately moved to cold rooms for storage purpose. Top of page Storage Bananas can be exported successfully by sea-shipment if the guidelines related to harvest maturity are strictly followed. Storage conditions of 13° C and 85% to 95% relative humidity are required. Storage temperature below 13° C would cause chilling injury to fruits resulting in surface discolouration, dull colour, failure to ripen and browning of flesh. The storage life at 13° C depends on the cultivar and varies from 3 to 4 weeks. A combination of low temperature with controlled atmosphere storage can further extend the storage life. Banana (Robusta cvr.) fruits could be stored in green unripe condition for 8 weeks under controlled atmosphere storage condition of 5% O2 + 5% CO2 at 12° C to 13° C with post storage ripening period of 4 to 5 days under ambient conditions. Top of page Ripening Green bananas in boxes and or cushioned plastic crates should be loaded into the ripening room (lower temperatures can damge the fruit) The room should be closed, insulated and airtight and be maintained at 16 to 180 C and 85-90 % RH.Temperature is controlled and maintained by thermostat. Supply ethylene into the room at a concentration of around 100 ppm (0.01%) The ethylene act as a catalyst initiating the hormonal process of ripening. The room is kept closed for 24 hours. At the end of 24 hrs, room should be ventilated to clear the ethylene gas and the carbondioxide released during the initial ripening phase and maintain at 18° C reducing to 15° C over three to four days. Top of page Transportation The harvested bananas from the gardens located in villages are usually transported as head loads, on ponies, as cart loads andas lorry loads, the transport for interstate trade are mainly effected through lorry services and railway wagons. Due to difficulties faced by wholesalers to arrange wagons,too in correct time, lorry transport is more depended in India. Top of page VALUE ADDED PRODUCTS INTRODUCTION Both ripe and unripe Bananas and plantains are normally peeled and sliced before drying, although Banana figs are sometimes prepared from whole ripe fruit. Sun drying is the most widespread technique where the climate is suitable but drying in ovens or over fires is also practiced. Many Banana products are now produced on an industrial scale, including the traditional Banana figs and flour, and the processing techniques In general, to obtain a good-quality product from ripe-Bananas the fruit is harvested green and ripened artificially under controlled conditions at the processing factory. After ripening, the Banana hands are washed to remove dirt and any spray residues, and peeled. Most production for local sale is of green cooking Bananas and plantains, because ripe desserts Bananas are easily damaged in transport. Ripe Bananas suffer a high rate of damage and loss, even when moving only short distances. PRODUCTS BANANA SLICE Several methods for canning of Banana slices in syrup are used. Best-quality slices are obtained from fruit at an early stage of ripeness. The slices are processed in syrup of 25 ° brix with pH about 4.2, and in some processes calcium chloride (0.2%) or calcium lactate (0.5%) are added as firming agents. A method for producing an intermediate-moisture Banana product for sale in flexible laminate pouches has been developed. Banana slices are blanched and equilibrated in a solutiOn containing glycerol (42.5%), sucrose (14.85%), potassium sorbate (0.45%), and potassium metabisulphite (0.2%) at 90 °C for 3 minutes to give a moisture content of 30.2% BANANA POWDER In the manufacture of Banana powder, fully ripe Banana pulp is converted into a paste by passing through a chopper followed by a colloid mill. 1 or 2 % sodium metabisulphite solution is added to improve the colour of the final product. Spray or drum - drying may be used, the latter being favoured as all the solids are recovered. A typical spray drier can produce 70 kg powder per hour to give yields of 8 to 11% of the fresh fruit, while drum-drying gives a final yield of about 13% of the fresh fruit. In the latter method the moisture content is reduced to 8 to 12 % and then further decreased to 2 % by drying in a tunnel or cabinet drier at 60° C. BANANA CHIPS Typically, unripe peeled Bananas are thinly sliced, immersed in a sodium or potassium metabisulphite solution, fried in hydrogenated oil at 180 to 200°C, and dusted with salt and an antioxidant. Alternatively, slices may be dried before frying and the antioxidant and salt added with the oil. Similar processes for producing plantain chips have been developed. Top of page BANANA BEVERAGES In a typical process, peeled ripe fruit is cut into pieces, blanched for 2 minutes in steam, pulped and pectolytic enzyme added at a concentration of 2 g enzyme per 1 kg pulp, then held at 60 to 65° C and 2.7 to 5.5 pH for 30 min. In a simpler method, lime is used to eliminate the pectin. Calcium oxide (0.5%) is added to the pulp and after standing for 15 minutes, this is neutralized giving a yield of up to 88% of a clear, attractive juice. In another process Banana pulp is acidified and steam-blanched in a 28 -in Hg vacuum which ensures disintegration and enzyme inactivation. The pulp is then conveyed to a screw press, the resulting purée diluted in the ratio 1:3 with water, and the pH was adjusted by further addition of citric acid to 4.2 to 4.3, which yields an attractive drink then this was centrifuged and sweetened. Top of page BANANA JAM A small amount of jam was made commercially by boiling equal quantities of fruit and sugar together with water and lemon juice, lime juice or citric acid, until setting point is reached. For example, 15% of mango pulp, 30% orange pulp was added to the Banana pulp. Then 600 g of sugar for 1 kg of fruit was added and boiled. 20 gm of citric acid was added and stirred continuously till it boiled and reaches the consistency of jam. Then the jam was filled in the bottles. Poovan, karpooravalli varieties of Banana are suitable for jam making. In another process Banana pulp is acidified and steam-blanched in a 28 -in Hg vacuum which ensures disintegration and enzyme inactivation. The pulp is then conveyed to a screw press, the resulting purée diluted in the ratio 1:3 with water, and the pH was adjusted by further addition of citric acid to 4.2 to 4.3, which yields an attractive drink then this was centrifuged and sweetened. Top of page BANANA JELLY Banana fruit is cleaned and cut into small pieces and 200 g of chopped pieces was taken and water was added until the fruit pieces get submerged and it was boiled for 30 minutes in a light heat. Muslin cloth was taken and the content was filtered until a clear solution was obtained. Based on the amount of clear solution obtained, 450 gm of sugar and 1% of citric acid should be added and boiled. BANANA SQUASH Pectinase was added to the Banana pulp (1 gm / 1 mg) and soaked for 5 hours. 2 mg sugar was added to 1 kg of pulp per litre of water, 10 gm citric acid was added to the juice pulp and boiled. Then the mixture was strained Some clarified juice, 7 mg potassium metabisulphite was added and bottled in a ratio of 1 part of squash with three parts of water. Top of page BANANA WINE Peel ripe bananas and slice thinly. Measure. To every one part sliced bananas, add one-and-one-a-half parts water. Boil for 30 minutes or longer depending upon the quantity of the pulp. Strain. Add sugar to the extract (one part sugar to every three parts extract). Stir and boil to dissolve the sugar. Sugar content should be 22-24 degrees. Brix. Allow to cool. Place in clean glass container or demi-johns. Inoculate with yeast (one tablespoon Red Star yeast to every 40 liters of boiled sweetened juice). Top of page BANANA STEM CANDY Select the stem that has already yielded a crop of mature bananas. Remove the outer sheath ar1d cut then into circular slices of % inches thick. Soak these slices in solution prepared by adding ½ tea spoonful potassium metabisulphite and one teaspoon citric acid in 2 liters of water to retain good color of candy and prevents discoloration. Boil the slices and cool then puncture lightly all over the slices with a fork. Take 3 kg of sugar and put alternate layers of sugar and slices keep it for one night. Then next day syrup will be produced than add one more kg of sugar and heat till a single thread consistency is obtained. Again keep it for overnight and next day add one kg of gar to it and boil till consistency is obtained. Then strain of the syrup. Then candy pieces are ready Top of page BANANA PUREE Banana purée is obtained by pulping peeled, ripe Bananas and then preserving the pulp by one of three methods: 1.Canning aseptically 2.Acidification followed by normal canning 3.Quick-freezing. The bulk of the world's purée is processed by the aseptic canning technique. Peeled, ripe fruits are conveyed to a pump which forces them through a plate with 1/4-in. holes, then onto a homogenizer, followed by a centrifugal de-aerator, and into a receiving tank with 29 in. vacuum, where the removal of air helps prevent discoloration by oxidation. The purée is then passed through a series of scraped surface heat exchangers where it is sterilized by steam, partially cooled, and finally brought to filling temperature. The sterilized purée is then packed aseptically into steam-sterilized cans which are closed in a steam atmosphere. Top of page FIBRE Banana Plant is an auspicious and ancient fruit crop grown in the South of India. After the fruit and the leaves are harvested, the bark of the tree is used which otherwise would have gone waste. Banana Fiber is extracted from Banana tree bark. The trunk is peeled. Brown-green skin is thrown away retaining the cleaner or white portion which will be processed into knotted fibers. The banana fibre is composed of cellulose – 62%, lignin - 29%, hemicellulose - 3%, rectin - 2%, miscellaneous - 4%. By-products of the fibre are : fabrics, bags, various types of mats, interior decoration items, window blinds, cushion covers, bolster covers, table lamps and folders, to name a few. Due to the relatively high cost of synthetic fibres and health hazards, it becomes necessary to explore natural fibres. Banana Fibre is a good alternative to this. Banana Fibre is Eco friendly and Chemical free. It is grease proof, water and fire resistant and totally bio-degradable. Banana Fibre is the Fibre extracted from the trunk of Banana tree which is considered as a waste. Banana fiber is used in manufacturing industries of handicrafts, home decorative, door mats, table mats, pooja and meditation mats. Paper made out of banana fiber is having very good export potential for 25 countries including European countries. Banana fiber has got very wide usage in the units like: 100% chemical free tissue paper, filter paper, paper bags, craft papers, greeting cards, wedding cards, carry bags, nursery pouches, art papers, decorative papers, tissue papers, bond papers, paper products like pen stands, table decorative, land shades etc., Products that are made out of banana fiber has very good market. Top of page TEXTILES The Banana plant has long been a source of fiber for high quality textiles. In Japan, Banana cultivation for clothing and household use dates back to at least the 13th century. In the Japanese system, leaves and shoots are cut from the plant periodically to ensure softness. Harvested shoots are first boiled in lye to prepare fibers for yarn-making. In a Nepalese system the trunk is harvested instead, and small pieces are subjected to a softening process, mechanical fiber extraction, bleaching and drying. After that, the fibers are sent to the Kathmandu Valley for use in rugs with a silk-like texture. These Banana fiber rugs are woven by traditional Nepalese hand-knotting methods, and are sold RugMark certified. Top of page BANANA PAPER Banana fiber is also used in the production of Banana paper. Banana paper is used in two different senses: to refer to a paper made from the bark of the Banana plant, mainly used for artistic purposes, or paper made from Banana fiber, obtained from an industrialized process, from the stem and the non-usable fruits. This paper can be either hand-made or in industrial processes. Top of page BANANA FIGS Select firm, ripe Cavendish bananas. Peel. Blanch for 30 seconds in boiling syrup made up of one part water and ¾ part sugar. Brown sugar may be used. Cook for one minute. Remove from fire and let bananas soak in the syrup overnight. Drain bananas. Add ¼ part sugar to syrup and boil. Add bananas and cook for one minute. Everyday for three more days, concentrate syrup by boiling for five to seven minutes. Soak bananas. On the final concentration, the syrup must attain a thick consistency. Soak bananas in the thick syrup for a week to plump and be thoroughly impregnated with syrup. Drain bananas and dry. The figs when dried can be handled without sticking to the finger Top of page BANANA WINE Peel ripe bananas and slice thinly. Measure. To every one part sliced bananas, add one-and-one-a-half parts water. Boil for 30 minutes or longer depending upon the quantity of the pulp. Add sugar to the extract (one part sugar to every three parts extract). Stir and boil to dissolve the sugar. Sugar content should be 22-24 degrees. Brix. Allow to cool. Place in clean glass container or demi-johns. Inoculate with yeast (one tablespoon Red Star yeast to every 40 liters of boiled sweetened juice). Top of page BANANA FLOWER PICKLE (THOKKU) FROM WASTE BANANA MALE FLOWER BUDS Banana Flower Pickle (Thokku) from waste banana male flower buds Name of the Technology Banana flower pickle (Thokku) from waste banana male flower buds. Application / Use The banana male bud is a waste material produced during crop production with less economic value. It is converted into a high value added product by making pickle (Thokku). The process involves removal of pistil, blanching, grinding and addition of spices and oil. The protocol and recipe was standardized. The product is tasty and stable for a year at room temperature.It can be adopted by food processing industries for commercial manufacture of pickles (Thokku). It is a low salt, low oil pickle suitable for all age groups. It is creation of wealth from waste and an additional source of income. Description The banana male bud is a waste material produced during crop production with less economic value. It is converted into a high value added product by making pickle (Thokku). The process involves removal of pistil, blanching, grinding and addition of spices and oil. The protocol and recipe was standardized. The product is tasty and stable for a year at room temperature. Input needed Raw material : Banana male flower bud Plant & Machinery: Working tables, blancher, grinder, frying pans, pickle filling and packing machine/ pouch sealing machine Power : 5 HP Manpower : 6 persons Land /Space : 1000 sq. ft. covered plinth area. Investment : Rs.1.50 lakhs Output capacity 200 kg per day ( 8 hours) Specific benefits and impact It is rich in fibre and low in salt hence good for health. Banana flower has medicinal values. The technology is simple and easy to adopt. The raw material is easily available and the cost benefit ratio is very high. Highly suitable for rural enterprises. Nutritive Profile (per 100 g): Energy - 384.282 Kcal Total Carbohydrate - 14.00% Fat - 34.75% Protein - 3.883% Acidity - 0.691% PH - 4.43% Total chlorides - 6.76% Acid Value - 5.61mg (KOH)/g Crude Fibre - 2.88% P (%) K (%) Ca (%) Mg (%) Na (%) Fe (ppm) Cu (ppm) Mn (ppm) 0.257 0.433 3.028 1.388 2.70 1.90 0.3950 1.045 Unit cost Rs.80/- per kg of finished product Developed by Dr. C.K. Narayana Contact Person The Director, National Research Centre for Banana, Thogamalai Road, Thayanur Post, Tiruchirapalli – 620 102. Tamil Nadu. E-mail: directornrcb@gmail.com, Phone: 0431-2618106 / 2618104, Fax: 0431-2618115 Name of the Institute National Research Centre for Banana, Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu Technology clientele Public and Private Patent obtained / applied for Nil Licensing right ICAR Top of page BANANA SOUP MIX USING BANANA FLOWER AND FLOUR Banana Soup Mix using dried banana flower and flour Name of the Technology Banana Soup Mix using dried banana flower and flour Application / Use It can be adopted by food processing industries for commercial manufacture of banana soup. It is suitable for all age groups. It can be adopted by small to medium scale industries. Description It is a banana male bud is a waste material produced during the crop production with less economic value, which is converted into high value added products. This process involves mixing of banana flour, corn flour, dried vegetable and spices in various proportions. The product is tasty and stable for six months at room temperature without affecting quality. Input needed Raw materials: Banana male flower and banana flour, plant & machinery, hot air oven, flour mill, blender and packing machine Power: 10 HP Manpower: 4 persons Land /Space: 1200 sq. ft. covered plinth area. Investment : Rs 10.0 lakhs Output capacity 50 kg per day (8 hours) Specific benefits and impact Banana male bud is a waste material which has several medicinal properties and the raw material is also easily available. It is highly suitable for rural enterprise. Unit cost Rs.100/- per kg Developed by Dr. C.K. Narayana Dr. M.M. Mustaffa Contact Person The Director, National Research Centre for Banana, Thogamalai Road, Thayanur Post, Tiruchirapalli – 620 102. Tamil Nadu. E-mail: directornrcb@gmail.com, Phone: 0431-2618106 / 2618104, Fax: 0431-2618115 Name of the Institute National Research Centre for Banana, Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu Technology clientele Public and Private Patent obtained / applied for Nil Licensing right ICAR Top of page BANANA BABY FOOD & HEALTH DRINK USING BANANA FLOUR Banana Baby Food Banana Health Drink using banana flour Name of the Technology Banana Baby Food and Health Drink using banana flour. Application / Use It can be adopted by food processing industries for commercial manufacture of banana baby food and health drink. The product is rich in carbohydrate and energy. Baby food and health drink are highly energetic and nutritious, which may be used for growing children. It can be started with low investment. Description Banana flour can be prepared from matured fruits. The flour prepared from the fruits is fortified with milk, green gram and sugar for baby food preparation, while in health drink preparation, chocolate powder, barley powders and sugar are added with banana flour. Input needed Raw materials: Banana flour, milk powder, green gram, chocolate powder, barley powders; plant & machinery: hot air oven, flour mill, blender and packing machine Power: 8 HP Manpower: 4 persons Land /Space: 1000 sq. ft. covered plinth area. Investment : Rs 5.0 lakhs Output capacity 30 kg per day ( 8 hours) Specific benefits and impact The product is rich in carbohydrate and energy and also rich in minerals and protein. It will be useful for children as energetic and nutritious drink. It may generate rural employment. Nutritive Profile (per 100 g): Energy - 257.364 Kcal Total Carbohydrate- 60.00% Fat - 0.78% Protein - 2.586% Total sugar - 28.266% Vitamin C - 9.40mg Acidity - 0.31% N (%) P (%) K (%) Ca (%) Mg (%) Na (%) Fe (ppm) Cu (ppm) Mn (ppm) Zn (ppm) 0.30 0.15 0.85 1.60 0.49 0.30 286 135 97 54 Unit cost Rs.130/- per kg for each product Developed by Dr. C.K. Narayana and Dr. M.M. Mustaffa Contact Person The Director, National Research Centre for Banana, Thogamalai Road, Thayanur Post, Tiruchirapalli – 620 102. Tamil Nadu. E-mail: directornrcb@gmail.com, Phone: 0431-2618106 / 2618104, Fax: 0431-2618115. Name of the Institute National Research Centre for Banana, Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu. Technology clientele Public and Private Patent obtained / applied for Nil Licensing right ICAR Top of page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Marketing Domestic market Export Export Standarads Marketing information sources Codex alimentarius Domestic Market Distribution of produce Marketing channels Regulated markets in TN Catchment areas of market Concentrated pockets of banana in india Distribution of Produce Distribution of produce from primary to terminal market Banana produced in Southern states namely Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu reaches major markets of Bangalore, Mysore, Chennai, Madurai, Hyderabad,Vishakhapatnam and Thiruvananthapuram, and is consumed within southern region. Banana grown in the states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat reaches North India in the markets of Bhopal, Jaipur, Lucknow and Delhi from where it is distributed in northern states like Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab and Haryana. Bananas produced in West Bengal and Orissa is distributed in markets of Patna, Ranchi,Raipur, Kolkata, Bhubaneshwar etc. and is consumed in these states. The banana grown in North- Eastern states is consumed in this region itself. Marketing channels in Tamil Nadu Channel 1 Channel 2 Channel 3 Channel 4 Channel 5 Regulated Markets List of regulated markets of banana in tamilnadu: 1 Thottiyam Thottiyam 621 215. 2 Kattuputhur Kattuputhur 621 207. 3 Solakadu Solakadu, Kollimalai, Namakkal Taluk. 4 Melur Trichy Road, Uzhavar Santhai Complex, Melur 6250106 Catchment areas of markets of banana in leading states: States Districts (Market) Blocks Tamil Nadu Thiruchirapalli Thuraiyur, Thottiyam, Musiri, Manachanallur, Lalgudi,Srirangam Coimbatore Mettuppalaiyam,Avinashi,Tiruppur,Palladam,Udumallaip pettai,Pollachi,Valparai. Theni Periyakulam, Andipatti, Uttammapalayam, Bodimayakkanur, Kamban, Megamali, Vadugapatti, Karnataka Uttar Kannad Maliyal,Mundgod,Yellapur,Sirsi,Siddapur,Bhatkal,Ankol Udupi Kundapura,Kokkaroni,Karkal,Goligudelej,Chittur,Harma nu,Kokkaroni,Shivapura,Kodlamale,Yermal Maharashtra Jalgaon Chopda, Yaval, Raver, Edalbad, Bhusawal, Jamner, Pachora, Bhadgaon, Chalisgaon, Parola, Amainer, Boradi Dhule Shirpur, Sindhkheda, Sakri, Nardana, Boradi, Sangvi Buldhana Malkapur, Khamgaon, Mehekar, Chikhli Andhra Pradesh Guntur Tangeda,Dachepalle,Piduguralla,Sattenapalie,Vinkoda,Po nnuru,Bapatia,Narasaraopet,Purti,Prattipadu,Pallapatla. Vijayanagram Parvatipuram,Bobblli,Gajapatinagaram,Chipurupalla,Salu Prakasham Erragondapalem, Markopur, Giddalur, Tarlupadu, Podile, Darsai, Baulipali, Chundi Gujarat Surat Mangrol,Umarwada,Mandvi,Vyara,Valod,Mahuva,Palsan a,Kamrej,Olpad,Nizer,Vadoli,Unal. Anand Sojitra,Sarsa,Sunav,Undel,Lunej,Ras,Kantha,Morai,Vadta l,Bochasan,Dhuwaean,Khambhat,Rohoni,Wadgam. Madhya Pradesh Khandwa Harsud, Pandhana, Nepanagar, Burhanpur Dhar Badnawar, Sardarpur, Gandhqwani, Manaawr, Kukshi, Dharmapuri Badwani Thikri, Rajpur, Newali, Pansemal, Sendwa Concentrated pockets of banana in India: State Districts Tamil Nadu Thiruchirapalli, Theni, Coimbatore, Erode , Pudukottai, Vellore, Karur, Dindigul, Thanjavur, Nammakal, Madurai Karnataka Shimoga, Dakshin Kannada, Tumkur, Bangalore,Udupi, Uttara Kannada,Belgaum, Chickmangalur, Hassan, Mandya Maharashtra Jalgaon, Dhule, Buldhana Andhra Pradesh Cudappa, Guntur, East Godavari, West Godavari, Vijayanagram, Vishakhapatnam, Karnool, Krishna, Prakasham. Assam Barpeta, Kamrup, Nalbari, Nagaon, Sonitpur. Gujarat Surat, Anand, Bharuch, Narmada, Vadodara Top of the Page Export Tamilnadu Karnataka Kerala Export Standard 1. Classes Bananas are classified in three classes Extra Class Class I Class II Extra Class Bananas in this class must be of superior quality. They must be characteristic of the variety and/or commercial type. The fingers must be free of defects, with the exception of very slight superficial defects, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package. Class i Bananas in this class must be of good quality. They must be characteristic of the variety. The following slight defects of the fingers, however, may be allowed, provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package. slight defects in shape and colour slight skin defects due to rubbing and other superficial defects not exceeding 2cm² of the total surface area Class ii This class includes bananas which do not qualify for inclusion in the higher classes, but satisfy the minimum requirements specified in Section 2.1 above. The following defects, however, may be allowed, provided the bananas retain their essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation. Defects in shape and colour, provided the product retains the normal characteristics of banana. Skin defects due to scraping,scabs,rubbing,blemishes or other causes not exceeding 4 cm² of the total surface area . The defects most not , in any case, affect the flesh of the fruit. 2.Contaminants & Hygiene CONTAMINANTS Heavy Metals: Bananas shall comply with those maximum levels for heavy metals established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity. Pesticide residues : Bananas shall comply with those maximum pesticide residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for this commodity. HYGIENE It is recommended that the produce covered by the provisions of this Standard be prepared and handled in accordance with the appropriate sections of the Recommended International Code of Practice – General Principles of Food Hygiene (CAC/RCP 1-1969, Rev. 4-2003), Code of Hygienic Practice for Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 53-2003), and other relevant Codex texts such as Codes of Hygienic Practice and Codes of Practice. The produce should comply with any microbiological criteria established in accordance with the Principles for the Establishment and Application of Microbiological Criteria for Foods (CAC/GL 21-1997) 3.Documents required for Export a)Documents related to goods a) Invoice b) Packing List c) Certificate of origin b)Documents related to shipment a) Mate Receipt b) Shipping Bill c) Bill of handing d) Airway Bill c)Documents related to Payment a) Letter of Credit (L/C) b) Bill of Exchange d)Documents related to quality of goods a) Phytosanitary Certificate b) GLOBALGAP Certification c) Health Certificate e) Organic Certification Certificate indicating material produce is based on organic farming. f) Documents related to Foreign Exchange Regulations GR Form : Documents required by RBI which assures to RBI that the exporter will realize the proceeds of goods within 180 days from the date of Shipment. g) Other Document Bank Realization Certification (BRC): This is the advice given by Foreign Exchange Bank after the realization of money from Importer" 4.List of Banana cultivars for export Groups Subgroups Maincultivar AA Sweet - Fig Sweet fig,Pisang Mas,Amas Date,Bocadilo. AB Ney Poovan Ney Poovan,Safed Velchi. AAA Cavendish Dwarf Cavendish,Giant Cavendish,Lacatan,Poyo(Robusta),Williams, Americani,Valery,Arvis. Gros Michel Gros Michel,Highgate Pink Fig Pink Fig, Green Pink Fig. Lbota AAB Apple Fig Apple Fig,Silk. Pome Pacovan,Parata Ana. Mysore Mysore, Pisang Ceylan, Gorolo. 5.Marking or labelling CONSUMER PACKAGES : In addition to the requirements of the Codex General Standard for the Labelling of Prepackaged Foods (CODEX STAN 1-1985, Rev. 1-1991), the following specific provisions apply Nature of Produce : If the produce is not visible from the outside, each package shall be labelled as to the name of the produce and may be labelled as to name of the variety. Non-Retail Containers : Each package must bear the following particulars, in letters grouped on the same side, legibly and indelibly marked, and visible from the outside, or in the documents accompanying the shipment. Identification : Name and address of exporter, packer and/or dispatcher. Identification code (optional). Nature of Produce : Name of the produce if the contents are not visible from the outside. Name of the variety or commercial type (optional). Origin of Produce : Country of origin and, optionally, district where grown or national, regional or local place name. Commercial Identification : Bananas in fingers (when appropriate); Class; Net weight (optional) Official Inspection Mark (optional) 6.Provisions concerning Presentations UNIFORMITY The contents of each package must be uniform and contain only bananas of the same origin, variety, and quality. The visible part of the contents of the package must be representative of the entire contents. PACKAGING Bananas must be packed in such a way as to protect the produce properly. The materials used inside the package must be new1, clean, and of a quality such as to avoid causing any external or internal damage to the produce. The use of materials, particularly of paper or stamps bearing trade specifications is allowed, provided the printing or labelling has been done with non-toxic ink or glue. Bananas shall be packed in each container in compliance with the Recommended International Code of Practice for Packaging and Transport of Fresh Fruits and Vegetables (CAC/RCP 44-1995, Amd. 1-2004). DESCRIPTION OF CONTAINERS The containers shall meet the quality, hygiene, ventilation and resistance characteristics to ensure suitable handling, shipping and preserving of the bananas. Packages must be free of all foreign matter and smell. PRESENTATION The bananas must be presented in hands and clusters (parts of hands) of at least four fingers. Bananas may also be presented as single fingers; Clusters with no more than two missing fingers are allowed, provided the stalk is not torn but cleanly cut, without damage to the neighboring fingers; Not more than one cluster of three fingers with the same characteristics as the other fruit in the package may be present per row. 7.Provisions concerning Quality In all classes, subject to the special provisions for each class and the tolerances allowed,the bananas must be: whole (taking the finger as the reference); sound, produce affected by rotting or deterioration such as to make it unfit for consumption is excluded; clean, practically free of any visible foreign matter; practically free of pests affecting the general appearance of the produce; - practically free of damage caused by pests; free of abnormal external moisture, excluding condensation following removal from cold storage, and bananas packed under modified atmosphere conditions; free of any foreign smell and/or taste; firm; free of damage caused by low temperatures; practically free of bruises; free of malformation or abnormal curvature of the fingers; with pistils removed;- with the stalk intact, without bending, fungal damage or dessication. In addition, hands and clusters must include: a sufficient portion of the crown of normal colouring, sound and free of fungal contamination; a cleanly cut crown, not bevelled or torn, with no stalk fragments. The development and condition of the bananas must be such as to enable them: to reach the appropriate stage of physiological maturity corresponding to the particularcharacteristics of the variety; to withstand transport and handling; and to arrive in satisfactory condition at the place of destination in order to ripensatisfactorily. 8.Provisions concerning sizing : For the purposes of sizing bananas of the Gros Michel and Cavendish sub-groups, the length of the fingers is determined along the outside curve from the blossom end to the base of the pedicel where the edible pulp ends and the diameter is defined as the thickness of a transverse section between the lateral faces. The reference fruit for measurement of the length and grade is: for hands, the median finger on the outer row of the hand; for clusters, the finger next to the cut section of the hand, on the outer row of the cluster. The minimum length should not be less than 14.0 cm and the minimum grade not less than 2.7 cm. 9.Provisions concerning tolerances : Tolerances in respect of quality and size shall be allowed for produce not satisfying the requirements of the class indicated. QUALITY(TOLERANCES) Extra Class Five percent by number or weight of bananas not satisfying the requirements of the class,but meeting those of Class I or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class. Class I : Ten percent by number or weight of bananas not satisfying the requirements of the class, but meeting those of Class II or, exceptionally, coming within the tolerances of that class. Class II : Ten percent by number or weight of bananas satisfying neither the requirements of the class nor the minimum requirements, with the exception of produce affected by rotting, major imperfections or any other deterioration rendering it unfit for consumption. Size(TOLERANCES): For all classes, 10% by number or weight of bananas not satisfying the requirements as regards sizing, but falling within the size immediately above or below those indicated in Section 3. Marketing Information Sources Introduction Marketing information helps the farmers in taking decisions in marketing their produce. The farmers are not able to know about the prices prevailing in the markets, as the market committees are able to disseminate information only in respect of their own markets. Therefore, farmers are left with no alternative but to dispose their produce in the nearest market, even at uneconomic prices. Market information is equally needed by other market participants in arriving at optimal trading decisions. In order to improve the present agricultural marketing information system in the country, Directorate of Marketing & Inspection(DMI), Ministry of agriculure has launched scheme. AGMARKNET envisages linking all important agricultural produce markets in the country, the State Agricultural Marketing Boards & Directorates and DMI for effective information exchange. AGMARKNET has led to a national-wide information network for speedy collection and diffusion of market information, computerization of market related information such as market fees, market charges, etc., ensuring regularity and reliability of data and increasing the efficiency in agricultural markets Organisations Providing Marketing Services AGMARKNET Dynamic Market Information (DMI) Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd.(NAFED) National Hortiucltural Board (NHB) SAFAL Market Director General of Foreign Trade, (DGFT) Director General of Commercial Intelligence & Statistics (DGCIS) National Co-operative Development Corporation (NCDC) AGMARKNET The Directorate of Marketing & Inspection (OMI) has embarked upon an ICT project: NICNET based Agricultural Marketing Information System Network (AGMARKNET)" in the country, during the Ninth Plan, for linking all importantAPMCS (Agricultural Produce Market Committees), State Agricultural marketing Boards / Directorates and regional offices located throughout the country, for effective information exchange on market prices NIC implements this project on a turn-key basis. This AGMARKNET project has already networked 735 Agricultural Produces Wholesale Markets (APWMs), 75 State Agricultural Marketing Boards/ Directorates and DMI Regional Offices during 2000-02 and embarked upon additional 2000 Marketsduring the Tenth Plan Period (2002-2007). Activtities: AGMARKNET database accrue to the farmers, as they have choices to sell their produce in the nearest market at remunerative prices. Nationwide market information for wholesale produce. Project supported by various Departments and State Boards of Agricultural Marketing Access mainly through the Internet Information dissemination progressively through local languages Computer facilities at the markets Software for download - Daily market prices Information collected by nodes in the various markets Weekly trends Information on loans, policies and regulations Bypass middlemen Data Dissemination through NGOs, SHGs, KVKs, GISTNIC, Cooperatives etc Address: AGMARKNET Project Directorate Agricultural Informatics Division National Informatics Centre A-Block, CGO Complex, New Delhi 110 003 Tel: +91-11-24367712,24305669,24305763,24305692, 0129-2415954 Web site: http://www.agmarknet.nic.in Dynamic Market Information Dynamic Market Information (DMI) Service is one such initiative to provide accurate market related information to farmers and related stakeholders on daily basis. DMI is the collaborative effort of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), Coimbatore and India Development Gateway Initiative of C-DAC, Hyderabad to provide reliable daily market prices of perishable commodities covering major markets in and around Tamil Nadu. Dynamic Market Information Service for Agri – Horti Produces through www.indg.in Credible and timely information plays a crucial role in agricultural marketing, particularly for perishables. Due to lack of proper market information channel and interference of middle man, the farmers have been exploited often and forced to sell their produce at lower price in their nearby market. The harvested produce can be sold at a premium price information of the nearest alternative markets is disseminated to farmers on demand and daily basis. They can make better decision to harvest the produce at right time and send their consignment to particular market where the market price is higher for his/her produce. The power of information and mobile technology is making things possible to get the required information at required time. Dynamic Market Information (DMI) Service is one such initiative to provide accurate market related information to farmers and related stakeholders on daily basis Contact Details : Director (SAMETI) Directorate of Extension Education ,Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore – 641003. Phone: 0422 – 6611233 / 6611383 E-mail: portal@tnau.ac.in Website:www.agritech.tnau.ac.in India Development Gateway (InDG) Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Jawaharlal Nehru Technical University (JNTU) Campus, Kukatpally, Hyderabad – 500085, Phone No:040 – 213150115 E-mail: indg@cdac.in For further details visit www.indg.in/india/market_information Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) was established by the Government of India under the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority Act passed by the Parliament in December, 1985. Functions Development of industries or otherwise for undertaking surveys and feasibility studies, participation in enquiry capital through joint ventures and other reliefs and subsidy schemes; Registration of persons as exporters of the scheduled products on payment of such fees as may be prescribed; Fixing of standards and specifications for the scheduled products for the purpose of exports; Carrying out inspection of meat and meat products in slaughter houses, processing plants, storage premises, conveyances or other places where such products are kept or handled for the purpose of ensuring the quality of such products; Improving of packaging of the Scheduled products; Improving of marketing of the Scheduled products outside India; Promotion of export oriented production and development of the Scheduled products; Collection of statistics from the owners of factories or establishments engaged in the production, processing, packaging, marketing or export of the scheduled products or from such other persons as may be prescribed on any matter relating to the scheduled products and publication of the statistics so collected or of any portions thereof or extracts therefrom; Training in various aspects of the industries connected with the scheduled products APEDA is mandated with the responsibility of export promotion and development of the following scheduled products: Fruits, Vegetables and their Products. Meat and Meat Products. Poultry and Poultry Products. Dairy Products. Confectionery, Biscuits and Bakery Products. Honey, Jaggery and Sugar Products. Cocoa and its products, chocolates of all kinds. Alcoholic and Non-Alcoholic Beverages. Cereal and Cereal Products. Groundnuts, Peanuts and Walnuts. Pickles, Papads and Chutneys. Guar Gum. Floriculture and Floriculture Products Herbal and Medicinal Plants Contact Agricultural & Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Govt. of India), NCUI Building 3, Siri Institutional Area, August Kranti Marg, New Delhi - 110 016 Phone : 91-11-26513204, 26514572, 26534186 Fax : 91-11-26526187 http://www.apeda.gov.in National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd.(NAFED) National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd.(NAFED) was established on the auspicious day of Gandhi Jayanti on 2nd October 1958. Nafed is registered under the Multi State Co-operative Societies Act. Nafed was setup with the object to promote Co-operative marketing of Agricultural Produce to benefit the farmers. Agricultural farmers are the main members of Nafed, who have the authority to say in the form of members of the General Body in the working of Nafed. Functions A nation level farmers cooperative marketing organisation Provides remunerative prices to framer for their produce and ensures timely payment Promotes cooperative marketing of agricultural produce Bridges the gap between the producer and consumer Stabilizes the prices of essential commodities provides marketing assistance to the farmers by arranging disposal of their produce on consignment basis at terminal markets to enable them fetch best possible price for their produce. Eggs, Fresh Fruits & Vegetables through the established cooperative network all over the country with active involvement marketing societies at mandi level. Contact National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED) NAFED House, Siddhartha Enclave Ring Roadm Ashram CHowk, New Delhi- 110 014 Telephone EPAX: 011-26340019,26341810 http://www.nafed-india.com National Horticulture Board National Horticulture Board (NHB) was set up by the Government of India in 1984 as an autonomous society under the Societies Registration Act 1860. Board has its Head Quarter in Institutional Area, Sector 18, Gurgaon (Haryana). The Managing Director is the Principal Executive of NHB who implements various schemes under overall supervision and guidance of the Board of Directors of NHB as well as the Department of Agriculture & Co-operation, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India. Aims & Objectives of NHB Schemes The broad aims & objectives of all the above mentioned schemes are as under: Development of hi-tech commercial horticulture in identified belts Development of modern post-harvest management infrastructure as integral part of area expansion projects or as common facility for cluster of projects . Strengthen market information system and horticultural database Development of integrated, energy efficient cold chain infrastructure for fresh horticulture produce, Popularization of identified new technologies / tools / techniques for commercialization / adoption, after carrying out technology need assessment, Promotion and market development of fresh horticulture produce, Transfer of technology to producers/farmers and service providers, work force carrying out post harvest management including processing of fresh horticulture produce Promotion of consumption of horticulture produce and products. Setting up Common Facility Centers in Horticulture Parks and Agri-Export Zones. Provide training and education to farmers and process industry personnel Contact National Horticulture Board Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India 85, Institutional Area, Sector – 18 Gurgaon - 122015 (Haryana) Telephone 0124-2342992, 2347441, 2342989-90 FAX : 2342991 Web: http://www.nhb.gov.in SAFAL Market The Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Government of India requested National Dairy Development Board to suggested system to modernize the procurement and marketing of the horticultural produce. NDDB has taken up a project in Bangalore as an alternate set up that will operate to the parallel system of marketing like Agriculture produce marketing committee. An investment of Rs.150 crores was made in to this project with the support of Government of India. Functions It facilitates the transaction between the producers and buyers through a transported auction systems It integrates the producers and the retailers into the market system It has 1600 tons trading capacity per day and at present they transact about 300 tons Commercial cold storage facility with capacity of 10000 metric tons Fruit ripening chambers for banana 100 spacious and well designed shops available for the buyers for their use Gained a good experience in developing approaching systems for vegetable and fruit markting Safal market ensures farmers a guaranteed price to farmers and avoid all sorts of exploitation of private market players. The price fixed is circulated to the farmers association. Farmers produce and payment is made once in three days to farmers association by demand draft. Safal market charges 3.5% of the total turnover as service charges to farmers association. Farmers association charges 1.5% as service charges to farmers. the private markets the farmers are charged more than 10% as service charges apart from other exploitation practices in weightment, price fixing, transportation etc., Three types of marketing systems are there, 1.Electronic auction hall- the selling and buying take place at the press of a button. The retail and whole sale buyers participate in the auction and bid through the electronic button system 2. Safal Daily fresh outlets- there are 7 outlets in Bangalore city for the consumers to buy them directly in the shop. 3. Outstation sale Contact Delhi Fruit & Vegetable Unit Mother Dairy Fruit & Vegetable Private Limited Mangolpuri Industrial Area Phase - I Delhi - 110083, India Phone : 91-11-27902222 (30 lines) Fax : 91-11-27915816 Director General of Foreign Trade, (DGFT) DGFT or Directorate General of Foreign Trade is a government organization in India responsible for the formulation of exim guidelines and principles for indian importers and indian exporters of the country. Before 1991, DGFT was known as the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports (CCI&E) DGFT is responsible for implementing the foreign trade policy or Exim policy with the main objective of promoting Indian exports Functions To implement the Exim Policy or Foreign Trade Policy of India by introducing various schemes and guidelines through its network of dgft regional offices thought-out the country. To Grant Exporter Importer Code Number to Indian Exporter and Importers. IEC Number is a unique 10 digit required by the traders or for the purpose of import and export in India. DGFT permits or regulate Transit of Goods from India or to countries adjacent to India in accordance with the bilateral treaties between India and other countries. To promote trade with neighboring countries. To grant the permission of free export in Export Policy Schedule 2. DGFT also play an important role in controlling DEPB Rates . Setting standard input-output norms is also controlled by the DGFT. Any changes or formulation or addition of new codes in ITC-HS Codes are also carried out by DGFT (Directorate General of Foreign Trade). For more details contact Director General of Foreign Trade, (DGFT) Udyog Bhavan, New Delhi. http://dgft.delhi.nic.in/ Director General of Commercial Intelligence & Statistics (DGCIS) The Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics (DGCI&S), Kolkata, under the Ministry of Commerce, Government of India, is the pioneer official organization for collection, compilation and dissemination of marketing related data i.e. export-import data, inter-state movement of foodgrains etc. For more details contact Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 1, Council House Street, Kolkata-700 001, India Website: http://www.dgciskol.nic.in/ National Co-operative Development Corporation (NCDC) Services Establishment of new processing units. Expansion/modernisation/rehabilitation/diversification of existing units Strengthening of share capital base Margin money/working capital to commodity cooperative and State-level Commodity Federations for expansion of their business activities The National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) supports fruit and vegetable marketing and processing cooperatives. It is a unique organisation, which not only plays a developmental role but also provides financial assistance for creating infrastructure for marketing, processing and storage of agricultural and horticultural produce in the Cooperative Sector. It extends financial assistance in practically all the areas of post harvest operations. For more details Contact: National Co-operative Development Corporation 4, Siri Institutional Area, Hauz Khas, NEW DELHI - 110016 Phone: 011-26962478, 26960796, 26962379, 26569246 FAX: 0111-26962370, 26516032 Website: http://www.ncdc.in/ Top of Page Codex alimentarius Introduction C O D E X A L I M E N T A R I U S is about safe, good food for everyone - everywhere. The C O D E X A L I M E N T A R I U S international food standards, guidelines and codes of practice contribute to the safety, quality and fairness of this international food trade. Consumers can trust the safety and quality of the food products they buy and importers can trust that the food they ordered will be in accordance with their specifications. The Codex Alimentarius Commission, established by FAO and WHO in 1963 develops harmonised international food standards, guidelines and codes of practice to protect the health of the consumers and ensure fair trade practices in the food trade. The Commission also promotes coordination of all food standards work undertaken by international governmental and non-governmental organizations. Codex standards are based on the best available science assisted by independent international risk assessment bodies or ad-hoc consultations organized by FAO and WHO. While being recommendations for voluntary application by members, Codex standards serve in many cases as a basis for national legislation. Codex process - in many cases assisted by the Codex Trust Fund, which strives to finance - and train - participants from such countries to enable efficient participation. Being an active member of Codex helps countries to compete in sophisticated world markets - and to improve food safety for their own population. At the same time exporters know what importers demand, and importers are protected from substandard shipments. International governmental and non-governmental organizations can become accredited Codex observers to provide expert information, advice and assistance to the Commission. Download this PDF here Top of Page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Institution And Schemes National Institutions International Institutions State Level Institutions Schemes National Institution Fruit Research Station, NAU, Gandevi,Gujarat This Research Station, Gandevi was established by his highness Sayajirao Gaikwad to test the adaptability and potential of new plant types of fruit crops, their multiplication and supply to the farmers at reasonable rate. Subsequently, in December 1987 it got the ICAR project of All India Co-ordinate Research Project on tropical fruits particularly, Banana & sapota. As a result of the work carried out so far at this research Station, several important recommendations on banana and sapota emerged out. Among them, a recommendation regarding the use of rayan ( Khirni) as root stock for preparing sapota graft which has been commercially adopted all over the country by nurserymen and orchardists. Objectivies To introduce various tropical & subtropical fruit crops in south Gujarat. 1. Establishment of nursery to provide certified grafts & seedings. 2. Collection, conservation, evaluation and crop improvement of banana and sapota. 3. Standardization of agrotechniques in banana & sapota. 4. Survey and management of pests & diseases of banana & sapota. 5. To provide technical guidance regarding horticultural crops. Contact Details : Fruit Research Station, Navsari Agricultural University, GANDEVI – 396 360 (Gujarat, INDIA). Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH), Lucknow The Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH) was started as Central Mango Research Station on September 4, 1972 under the aegis of the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore Mandate of the Research Station To undertake basic and applied research to enhance productivity and develop value chain for major and minor subtropical fruits 2. To function as national repository of above fruit crops. 3. To act as a centre for human resource development and provide consultancy to the stake holders. 4. To develop linkage with national and international agencies to accomplish the above mandates. Contact Details : Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture(Indian Council of Agricultural Research), Rehmankhera, P.O.Kakori, Lucknow UP, INDIA, 227107 Ph : 91-0522-2841025 Fax : 91-0522-2841022, 23 Email:director@cish.ernet.in International Institutions National Agricultural Research Organisation (NARO), Uganda International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Nigeria Taiwan Banana Research Institute (TBRI), Taiwan Bioversity International, Italy Banana Asia and Pacific Network(BAPNET) Horticulture Research and Development Centre International Network for the Improvement of Banana and Plantain International Plant Genetic Resources Institute (IPGRI) International Starch Institute National Agricultural Research Organisation (NARO), Uganda The National Agricultural Research Organisation (NARO) is the apex body for guidance and coordination of all agricultural research activities in the national agricultural research system in Uganda. NARO is a Public Institution established by an act of Parliament, which was enacted on 21st November 2005 . NARO is a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal.NARO comprises of the council as its governing body, committees of the council as its specialised organs, a secretariat for its day-to-day operations with the semi autonomous public agricultural research institutes under its policy guidance. Contact Details : National Agricultural Research Organisation (NARO) Plot 3, Lugard Avenue, Entebbe P.O.Box 295, Entebbe, Uganda Ph :Tel: 256 -41- 320512, 256 -41- 320341/2, 256 -41- 320178 Fax: 256 -41- 321070, Email: dgnaro@infocom.co.ug" International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Nigeria The International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) is Africa's leading research partner in finding solutions for hunger, malnutrition, and poverty. Our award-winning research for development (R4D) addresses the development needs of sub-Saharan Africa. We work with partners to enhance crop quality and productivity, reduce producer and consumer risks, and generate wealth from agriculture. We work on the following crops: cowpea, soybean, banana/plantain, yam, cassava and maize. Contact Details : International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) Headquarters, IITA PMB 5320, Ibadan , Oyo State, Nigeria Ph : +234 2 7517472, (0)8039784000, (0)8055055954,(0)8034035281, (0)8034035282, (0)8034035283" VOIP via USA: 1-201-6336094 , Fax: INMARSAT: 873761798636" E-mail: iita@cgiar.org" Taiwan Banana Research Institute (TBRI), Taiwan TBRI has a germplasm collection of 229 accessions, including abaca, diploids, triploids and tetraploids. TBRI has released several somaclonal variants of Giant Cavendish with resistance to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cubense Race 4. ‘Formosana’ and ‘Tai-Chiao #1’ have been distributed to banana growers to sustain the banana industry in Taiwan. Contact Details Taiwan Banana Research Institute (TBRI) P.O.Box #18, Chiuju, Pingtung, Taiwan. R.O.C Website: http://www.banana.org.tw/ Name of contact person: Chi-Hon Chen, Chih-Ping Chao Tel / Fax: +886 (8) 739 2111 / 0595 Email address: tbri@ksts.seed.net.tw " Bioversity International, Italy Bioversity International is the world's leading organization dedicated to agricultural biodiversity research to improve people's lives through: 1. Better nutrition, especially in developing countries. 2. Sustainable farming practices, to secure our future food supplies. 3. Conservation and use, to ensure that everyone can grow the food they need. Contact Details : Bioversity Headquarters Via dei Tre Denari 472/a 00057 Maccarese (Fiumicino) Rome, Italy Tel : (39-06) 61181 , Fax : (39-06) 61979661 Email: bioversity(at)cgiar.org" Banana Asia and Pacific Network(BAPNET) The Banana Asia-Pacific Network (ASPNET) was established in 1991 to foster collaborative research on bananas and renamed BAPNET (Banana Asia Pacific network) in 2002. The network includes 13 country members and 2 research institutes.BAPNET operates under the auspices of APAARI (Asia Pacific Association of Agricultural Research Institutes) and is guided by a Steering Committee, which is made up of representatives of all the national programmes and institutions that participate in the network. This committee meets annually to review progress in addressing the regional research agenda and to discuss future priorities and strategies for the network. Bioversity International’s regional office in the Philippines provides the secretariat and coordination for the network." Horticulture Research and Development Centre The Horticulture Research and Development Centre is one of Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada's network of 19 research centres. • Located in Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, Quebec, the Centre's mandate is to conduct research in the areas of sustainable production, pest management and preserving the quality of crops and horticulture after harvesting. • Scientists specialize in market garden crops, tree fruits, small fruits, ornamental shrubs and new crops. • To develop and transfer knowledge, and to produce technologies and innovative products, while striving to protect the environment preserve human health and minimize risks for producers. • The Centre's qualified and experienced researchers also carry out collaborative work with university researchers or government colleagues. • The Centre manages three research sub-stations at L'Acadie and Sainte-Clotilde, which specializes in mineral soil and muck soil horticulture research, and Frelighsburg which operates a variety of orchards for research. Contact Details : Horticulture Research Development Centre 430:Gouin(Boulevard) Saint(-Jean - sur - Richelieu, Quebec) J3B(3000000.0) Tel.: 450-515-2002 / Fax: 450-346-7740 International Network for the Improvement of Banana and Plantain INIBAPs mission is to enhance the livelihoods of small-scale Musa producers by working with partners to: (1) conserve, characterize and disseminate genetic diversity; (2) develop (by conventional and molecular methods) superior cultivars and test them with farmers; (3) develop sustainable production systems and identify opportunities for adding post-harvest value; (4) support research-and-development efforts by disseminating information and raising awareness of key issues; (5) assess regional and national needs, develop a coordinated response and encourage the adoption of promising solutions. INIBAP's web site contains information on the conservation and diversity of Musa; banana and plantain networks around the world; post-harvest use and marketing; and publications. INIBAP was created when a destructive fungal disease of banana, black Sigatoka, was spreading rapidly in Africa and Latin America in the mid-1980s clearly having devastating consequences for the millions of smallholder farmers dependent on banana and plantain for their main staple food. Because of the global nature of banana research, the distinct regional differences and the fragmented nature of ongoing activities, it was decided that the most appropriate strategy was to create a network rather than a research centre. INIBAP was thus created in 1985. Since May 1994, INIBAP is a network of the International Plant Genetic Resources Institute (IPGRI), supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). Contact Details : 1990 Bd de la Lironde, Parc Scientifique Agropolis II, 34397 Montpellier, France Tel. (33)467611302 - Fax. (33)467610334 Email : bioversity-france@cgiar.org - http://bananas.bioversityinternational.org International Plant Genetic Resources Institute (IPGRI) The goal of IPGRI(formerly known as the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources (IBPGR)is to advance the conservation and the use of plant genetic resources for the benefit of present and future generations. IPGRI has encouraged the establishment of plant genetic resources programmes in many countries. It has raised general awareness of the issues related to plant genetic resources, which in turn has stimulated the demand for training and research,for technical publications, and for scientific assistance to national plant genetic resources programmes. Contact Details : International Plant Genetic Resources Institute Via delle Sette Chiese, 142, 00145 Rome, Italy Phone (39)0651892269, Fax (39)065750309 http://www.cgiar.org/ipgri International Starch Institute International Starch Institute is located in Aarhus, Denmark at the University campus and with close contact to the Danish starch industry. International Starch Institute in cooperation with the Danish environmental authorities carried out a three year trial for optimizing the recycling of fruit juice and found it was an attractive substitute for artificial fertilizer. Understandably farmspreading is the preferred methods of utilizing the nutrients of the juice, wherever land is available. Banana starch - a newcomer on the international starch market - may equally well substitute the more traditional starches for a range of application within the paper and textile industry and as a texturizer and binder in foods. Banana starch is an equally valued carbohydrate source for the biochemical industry, for alcohol, sweeteners and as a worth adjunct. Contact Details : International Starch Institute, Science Park, Gustav Wieds Vej 10, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark. Tlf.: +45 8620 2000 - Fax: +45 8730 0223 - www.starch.dk - kd.hcrats@lanoitanretni. State Level Institutions Tamil Nadu Horticultural college and research Institute, Coimbatore Horticultural college and research Institute, periyakulam Horticultural research station, Thadiankudisai Horticultural research station,Pechiparai Urban horticulture development centre National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB), Tiruchirapalli Department of Fruit Crops, TamilNadu Agriculture University, Coimbatore Horticultural college and research Institute, Coimbatore The origin of the Department of Fruit Crops dates back to 1935, with the establishment of a Fruit Research Station at Kodur (now in Andhra Pradesh) by the then Imperial Council of Agricultural Research. Research on fruits gained further intensification with the functioning of the Fruit Section at Coimbatore in 1950. The department has well equipped tissue culture laboratory, UG and PG laboratories with computer facilities. Breeding, management, plant protection and post harvest technology of fruit crops are the mandatory areas of research. The faculties of this department are well trained at international institutes and laboratories. The Deparment has a well established orchard with varietal museum, crop cafeteria and experimental plots. TNAU is a pioneering institute for breeding of bananas and papayas at the global level. The Institution has an extensive collection of banana inclusive of diploids (AA and AB), triploids (AAA, AAB and ABB) and tetraploids which is a strong base for banana improvement. Systematic research work on crop improvement has led to the evolution of one banana variety and seven papaya varieties. Contact Details : Professor and Head, Department of Fruits, Horticultural College and Research Institute, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore(-641003, India) Voice: 91-422-5511269 (off) Mobile:0422 - 3335030 Fax: 91-422-2430781 Email: fruits@(tnau.ac.in Horticultural college and research Institute, periyakulam The Horticultural College & Research Institute (HC & RI), one of the constituent colleges of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, is located at Periyakulam, on the Theni - Dindigul high way in Tamil Nadu State (NH). The famous upper Pulney hill ranges featuring nearby offer natural beauty and scenic frontage to this unique Institute. This Institute provides both teaching and research opportunities of high order in an exceptionally pleasant environment. This is the only full-fledged Institute providing horticulture education in Southern Peninsular India. A Fruit Research Station was set up in 1957 at Periyakulam, with a view to meet the needs and aspirations of the fruit growers of the erstwhile Madurai district. In the year 1971, Horticultural Research Station (HRS), Periyakulam, was developed which marked the expansion of the research mandate to all major horticultural crops. Contact Details : Dean Horticultural College and Research Institute Periyakulam- 625 604 Phone : (Off) 91-4546-234661, 231319, (Res) 231422 Direct : 91-4546-233225 Telefax: 91-04546- 231726 Horticultural research station, Thadiankudisai Horticultural Research Station, Thadiyankudisai was founded in 1957 by the Government of Tamil Nadu as the Hill Banana Research Station. In 1972, the station was designated as the Horticultural Research Station and became a Regional Research Station and the lead centre for hilly and tribal zone under NARP. The station comes under the geographical zone of Lower Pulney hills. Mandatory crops : Pepper, Mandarin orange, cinnamon, avocado, chow-chow, vanilla and hill banana. Objectives : To meet the needs of planters in this region regarding cultivation of plantation crops, spices and condiments. Developing of new technologies in the cultivation of vanilla, hill banana, pepper, avocado and chow chow. Socio-economic studies of small farmers and tribes Training of small farmers, youth and women in agricultural practices. Production and supply of elite planting materials of vanilla (Vanilla planifolia Andrews) Production and supply of biocontrol agents viz., Trichoderma viride and pseudomonas flourescence Horticultural research station,Pechiparai Horticultural Research station, Pechiparai is located in the natural surroundings at the foot hills of Western Ghats about 10km away from Kulasekaram, 23 km. from Marthandam, 45km. from Nagercoil and 75km. from Trivandrum. It is situated on the bank of Pechiparai main canal about 1.5km away from the Pechiparai Dam. Objectives : Crop improvement, crop management and crop protection studies in fruits, minor fruits, vegetables, spices, plantation crops and flowers under high rainfall zone. Remandated ZARS-KVK - To impart training to local farmers, tribals and department officials by organising workshops, seminars, field study programmes, front line demonstrations, on farm trials and field days etc. Agrometeorological Advisory Services - To issue medium range weather forecast with agro-advisory recommendations to the farmers to take appropriate farm decisions to the anticipated weather change. Medicinal Plants - Introduction of suitable medicinal plants as intercrops for young rubber plantations. Survey and screening for suitable high yielding types of Jack and off season mango cultivars. Mandate crops : Fruit crops - Banana, Pineapple, Jack, Mango, Guava, Sapota and Minor fruits Technologies developed : Banana 25 kg of FYM, 25 g of ZnSo4, 500g of Neem cake per plant was found to correct zinc deficiency in Red banana. Pseudostem injection of monocrotophos or dimethoate @ 1 ml + 5ml water mixture administered @ 4 ml/plant was found to be effective for the management of pseudostem borer on banana. The cost benefit ratio was 1:2.85 and 1:2.79 in the case of Monocrotophos and Dimethoate respectively." Contact Details : Professor and Head, Horticultural Research Station, Pechiparai - 629 161 Kanyakumari District. Phone : (04651) 281192, 281191 Email id : hrsppi@tnau.ac.in Urban horticulture development centre Urban Horticulture Development Centre was established at Chennai to serve as an information center for hi-tech horticulture technology and conduct training programs at chennai. It is established in the year 2000. Objectives : 1. To serve as an information centre for hi-tech horticulture technology To develop a hi-tech horticulture nursery, supply of quality plant material, tissue culture plants, seeds of vegetables, flowers and herbs, ornamental plants, tree seedlings etc. To impart training programmes on hi-tech horticulture to urban entrepreneurs, unemployed graduates, students, NGOs, corporates house wives etc. To inculcate knowledge on development of horti-ecological parks, avenues, greenery, theme parks, botanical gardens, herbal parks,landscaping etc. to reduce pollution and ecological hazards in the city 5. Formulation of hi-tech horticultural projects, providing technological assistance to new entrepreneurs for promoting the horticulture industry 6. Providing consultancy on landscaping, terrace garden, herbal and aromatic garden, production of edible mushroom, floral arrangement dry flower production, establishment of fruit processing plant vegetable dehydration units, essential oil extraction units phytochemical extraction unit, preparation of eco-friendly biocompost biofertilizers, stablishment of hi-tech floricultural units under controlled conditions 7. To create a database on horticultural market information system Current activities : Hi-tech nursery - Elite horticultural plant material have been made available for sales through the hi-tech nursery. Seeds of improved varieties of vegetables, flowers, spices, medicinal and aromatic plants are now being sold through the counter. Plant Advisory Cell - Problems oriented in horticulture are now attended and solutions are offered. Training - Monthly training schedule has been developed for imparting training various subjects Contact Details : Urban Horticulture Development Center Tamil Nadu Agricultural University New No.P44 (old no.37), 6th Avenue Annanagar, Chennai- 600 040 Phone: 044-26263484/ Fax : 044- 26263484 Email : chennai@(tnau.ac.in) National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB), Tiruchirapalli The National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB) was established at Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu on 21st August, 1993 on the recommendation of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Mandate of the Research Station : To undertake basic and strategic research for developing technologies to enhance productivity and utilization of banana. 2. To develop improved cultivars through traditional and biotechnological methods and conserve the diversity. 3. To serve as national repository of germplasm and information related to banana and plantain and also to disseminate the knowledge for production and productivity. 4. To provide leadership and coordinate the network research for generating location specific varieties, technology and for solving specific constraints of banana and plantain production. 5. To collaborate with relevant National and International agencies in achieving the above objectives. Contact Details : National Research Centre for Banana,Thogamalai Road, Thayanur Post,Tiruchirapalli - 620 102,Tamil Nadu, India. Phone : 91-431-2618104, 2618106, Fax : 91-431-2618115, Email : nrcbdirector@sancharnet.in, directornrcb@gmail.com,nrcbanana@gmail.com Department of Fruit Crops, TamilNadu Agriculture University, Coimbatore The Deparment has a well established orchard with varietal museum crop cafeteria and experimental plots • TNAU is a pioneering institute for breeding of bananas and papayas at the global level. • The Institution has an extensive collection of banana inclusive of diploids (AA and AB), triploids (AAA, AAB and ABB) and tetraploids which is a strong base for banana improvement. • TNAU is a pioneering institute for breeding of bananas and papayas at the global level. • Systematic research work on crop improvement has led to the evolution of one banana variety and seven papaya varieties. Contact Details Professor and Head, Department of Fruit Crops, Horticultural College and Research Institute, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore-641003, India Ph : 91-422-5511269 , Mobile:0422 - 3335030 Fax: 91-422-2430781 , Email:fruits@tnau.ac.in" Karnataka University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore The University of Agricultural Sciences was established through an Act (No. 22) by the then Mysore government in 1963. Although the university came into existence on August 21 1964, a journey into the broad-lands of history reveals it to be a much older institution. It would perhaps not be an exaggeration to say that the university was conceived way back in 1899 in the form of an experimental farm of 30 acres. Objectives : Teaching : • To make agricultural education responsive to the growing and changing needs of the society in general and aspirations of the farming community in particular. • To establish a dynamic system of agricultural education to train highly skilled and competent manpower to address the challenging tasks with new emerging areas of research, extension and industry Research : • To develop suitable end-use technologies to solve farmers’ problems vis-à-vis agricultural production including animal husbandry and fisheries and foster research aimed at conceptual advances in all disciplines for technology development in the long run. • To establish state-of-art infrastructure including well-equipped laboratories, extensive farmlands and an operational research management system that will ensure quick, efficient and cost effective implementation of research programmes. • To attract qualified and talented personnel to undertake research in the University. Contact Details : University of Agricultural Sciences, GKVK, Bangalore- 560 065 Ph: 080-23330984 Unviersity of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad The University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad was established on October 1, 1986. The University has 4 Colleges, 25 Research Stations, 6 Extension Education Units, 5 Krishi Vigyan Kendras and ATIC. The University has its jurisdiction over 7 districts namely Bagalkot, Belgaum, Bijapur, Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, and Uttar Kannada in northern Karnataka. Greater diversity exists in soil types, climate, topography cropping and farming situations. The University has released a total of 154 crop varieties, which include 43 in cereals oilseeds – 21 in pulses – 26 in commercial crops, - 32 in fodder crops - 12 and 20 in horticultural and plantation crops Mandate : • To perform integrated functions of teaching, research and extension in agriculture and allied disciplines. • The University has carved a niche for itself on the national and international scene. Among the Agricultural Universities in the country, the University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad is well known by virtue of its high academic standards, research achievements and effective transfer of technology. • In addition, the students of this University have made impact at the national level through academic and cultural activities Contact Details : University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad DHARWAD - 580 005 Karnataka State, India Phone : 0091-836-2747958 FAX : 0091-836-2745276 WebSite : http://www.uasd.edu" Krishi Vignana Kendra (KVK),Gonikoppal Krishi Vigyan Kendra is situated in the Kodagu district of Karnataka established in 1954 by the Karnataka State Government, it was transferred to IIHR on February 1, 1972. The center has an area of 17.5 ha. It was started with the objectives of investigating the nature and causes of citrus dieback disease in Kodagu and nearby areas Mandate : • Technology assessment, refinement and demonstration of technology/products • On-farm testing to identify the location specificity of agricultural technologies under various farming systems • Frontline demonstrations to establish its production potentials on the farmers’ fields • Training of farmers to update their knowledge and skills in modern agricultural technologies, and training of extension personnel to orient them in the frontier areas of technology development • To work as resource and knowledge centre of agricultural technology for supporting initiatives of public, private and voluntary sector for improving the agricultural economy of the district • In order to create awareness about improved technology, a large number of extension activities will be taken up • The seeds and planting materials produced by the KVKs will also be made available to the farmers. Contact Details ProgrammeCo-ordinator Krishi Vigyan Kendra Gonikoppal (Karnataka) Pin-571213 Email : progckvkg@iihr.ernet.in Phone : 08274-2247274 Krishi Vignana Kendra (KVK),Hirehalli Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Hirehalli was established on 24th march 2009 under Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore at Hirehalli which is located near the Hirehalli Railway Station in Tumkur District (58 km from Bangalore ) on the Bangalore-Poona National Highway (NH-4). It lies between 130 N latitude and 770 E longitude at 845 m above MSL. Mandates: To disseminate the viable and sustainable technologies developed and refine the same in the fields of Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Science, Fisheries and other allied fields for the benefit of farmers through Conducting 'On-Farm Testing' for identifying technologies in terms of location specific sustainable land use systems(Technology Assessment and Refinement). Organize training programmes to update the extension personnel with emerging advances in agricultural research on regular basis(In-service training). Organize short and long-term vocational training courses in agriculture and allied vocations for the farmers and rural youths with emphasis on learning by doing for higher production on farms and generating self-employment (Vocational Training). Organize Front Line Demonstration on various crops to generate production data and feedback information (Front Line Demonstration). Contact Details : Programme Co-ordinator Krishi Vigyan Kendra Hirehalli (Karnataka) Pin-572168 Email : progckvkh@iihr.ernet.i Krishi Vignana Kendra (KVK),Bagalkot Indian Council of Agriculture Research, New Delhi in collaboration with University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad started Krishi Vigyan Kendra at Bagalkot during June 2005 for transfer of scientific Mandates : 1. Conducting training programmes for practicising farmers,farm women and rural youths. 2. Conducting training programmes for extension functionaries. 3. Conducting on farm testing. 4. Conducting front line demonstrations. Contact Details : Krishi Vigyan Kendra Near Railway Station Badami Road Bagalkot – 587 101, Karnataka Office : 08354 - 200003 Cell : 94484 95347 Email : kvkbgk@rediffmail.com Website: www.kvkbagalkot.org" Krishi Vignana Kendra (KVK),Dharwad Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) in collaboration with University of Agricultural Sciences Bangalore, Started Krishi Vigyan Kendra in 1976. It was the first time in Karnataka and Second in South India. The Dharwad KVK has been established at 2004 April at Saidapur Farm, Dharwad. Mandate : • To Conduct On Farm Testing (OFT) for identifying agricultural technologies for location specific sustainable land use system. • To organize training to update the Extension Personnel with the advances in Agricultural Technology on regular basis. • To organize short term and long term vocational Training courses in agriculture and allied subjects for the farmers with emphasis on learning by doing. • To provide training & communication support to the district level development agencies like agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry, fisheries and NGOs in their extension programmes. Contact Details: Programme(Coordinator) Krishi Vigyan Kendra Saidapur Farm University of Agricultural Sciences Dharwad-580005 Karnataka state, India Phone: 0091-836-2444272 Fax: 0091-836-2444272 Krishi Vignana Kendra (KVK),Hanumanapatti Mandates : Conduct On Farm Testing (OFT) for identifying agricultural technologies for location specific sustainable land use system. To organize training to update the Extension Personnel with the advances in Agricultural Technology on regular basis. Organize short term and long term Vocational Training courses in agriculture and allied vocations for the farmers, youth with emphasis on learning by doing Organize Front Line Demonstrations (FLD) to generate production data and feed back information. Contact Details : The Programme Co-ordinator Krishi Vigyan Kendra Hanumanamatti - 581 135, Tq:Ranebennur, Dist.: Haveri, State : Karnataka, India Krishi Vignana Kendra (KVK),Bijapur Indian council of Agriculture Research, New Delhi remandated Zonal Agricultural Research Station, Bijapur to take up additional functions of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) under National Agriculture Technology Project in August, 2000. Mandates : Conducting training programmes for practicising farmers, farm women and rural youths. Conducting training programmes for extension functionaries. Conducting on farm testing. Conducting front line demonstrations. Contact Details : Programme Co - ordinator Krishi Vigyan Kendra, P.B.No-18,Hittinahalli farm BIJAPUR - 586101 Phone: 08325-230758 Fax: 08352-230758 Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR), Bangalore The Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) is a premier Institute conducting basic, strategic, anticipatory and applied research on various aspects of fruits, vegetable, ornamental, medicinal and aromatic plants and mushrooms. Popularly known as IIHR, Bangalore, the institute was the first horticultural Research Institute in the country established by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research on 5th September, 1967 at the Head quarters of New Delhi. Mandate of the Research Station : To undertake basic and applied research for developing strategies to enhance productivity and utilization of tropical and sub-tropical horticulture crops viz., fruits, vegetables, ornamentals, medicinal and aromatic plants and mushrooms. To collaborate with national and international agencies in achieving the above objectives To act as a centre for training for up gradation of scientific manpower in modern technologies for horticulture production and To serve as a repository of scientific information relevant to horticulture. Contact Details : IIHR, Hessaraghatta lake post, Bangalore-560 089. Phone : 28466353/28466471. Website : http://www.iihr.ernet.in Kerala Kerala Agricultural Unviersity Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) became operational since February 1st 1972 when the then existing two educational and 21 research institutions administered by the Departments of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry of the Government of Kerala, were brought under one umbrella for facilitating the sustainable and accelerated development of agriculture in the State Mandates : 1. Making provision for imparting education in different branches of study, particularly in agriculture, horticulture,animal husbandry including veterinary and dairy science,co-operation, fisheries, forestry, agricultural engineering,home science and other allied branches of learning and scholarship; 2. Furthering the advancement of leadership and prosecution of research, particularly in agriculture and allied sciences; 3. Undertaking an extension education programme; and 4. Such other purposes as the University may from time to time determine. Research undertaken in the University covers all economically important crops grown in the State with focus on Rice,Vegetables,Banana,Pine apple,Pepper,Coconut,Cashew,Cardamom,Medicinal and aromatic plants,Animals (cattle, goats, pigs and poultry including ducks, elephant),Culture fisheries,Farm machines and implements,Crop and animal production and management, Introduction of new crops and animals,Farming systems especially integrated homestead farming, Conservation of plant and animal germplasm for preserving biodiversity, Meat technology, Processing of farm products economics of crop production and Commodity marketing. Contact Details : Kerala Agrl. University , Mannuthy, 680 651, Thrissur, Kerala, India Regional Agricultural Research Station, Ambalavayal The Regional Agricultural Research Station for the Southern Zone has been functioning at Vellayani since February 1982. Apart from continuing the research activities under NARP Phase I and Phase II , the station implemented 30 externally aided research projects comprising of five AICRPs, five ICAR ad hoc schemes, eight STED projects, one CDS project, one KAU-RRII project, one NWDPRA project, one Food processing project funded by Ministry of Food Processing Industry, three DST projects, two DBT projects, two PPIC projects and one RSMM project Mandate: Lead functions are research under partially shaded conditions and export-oriented vegetables and cut flower production. The Centre has verification functions on rice, fruits, homestead farming, coconut, tuber crops, vegetabeles, farm machinery for garden lands, AICRPs on forage crops, nematodes, oil seeds and pesticide residues are functioning here." Agronomic Research Station, Chalakudy The Agronomic Research Station was established on February 14th, 1972 by the Department of Agriculture, Kerala. The KAU took over the station in 1973 for implementing the Co-ordinated project for research on water management sponsored by ICAR. The Scheme started functioning from July 1974 Mandate : The lead functions are water management for rice and rice-based cropping system and other annual crops. The verification functions include agro-techniques in rice and rice-based cropping system. The AICRP on water management is functioning at this centre from 1974. Accomplishments : The centre developed economic and efficient water management practices for the following crops: cowpea, sweet potato, black gram, pineapple, groundnut, Elephant foot yam, sesame, coconut, banana, bitter gourd, cassava, ash gourd and ginger." Banana Research Station The Banana Research Station at Marakkal was established during the year 1963 in an area of 17.3 ha, as a centre of the Department of Agriculture to carry out research on banana and pineapple. In 1970, the station was brought under the All India Co-ordinated Fruit Improvement Project of the ICAR to carry out research on banana and pineapple. Mandate of the Research Station • Lead function is on banana and banana-based cropping systems and verification function in vegetables. The All India Fruit Improvement Project for Banana is functioning in this centre. Accomplishments : • The Kannara Centre maintains 212 accessions of banana. Two banana hybrids - H1 and H2 were recommended for cultivation in Kerala. Five superior types from the germ plasm - Dudhsagar, Sugandhi, Mysore Ethan and Highgate were selected based on yield. • Recommendations for the integrated management of banana pests including nematodes were evolved. Several recommendations on nutrition and inter-cropping in banana were also made from this centre. Contact Details : Banana Research Station, Kannara, Marakkal, Thrissur -680 652 , Kerala. Ph : 0487-2699087 Email : brskannara@kau.in Regional Agricultural Reaserch Station,Vellayani The Regional Agricultural Research Station for the Southern Zone has been functioning at Vellayani since February 1982. Apart from continuing the research activities under NARP Phase I and Phase II , the station implemented 30 externally aided research projects comprising of five AICRPs, five ICAR ad hoc schemes, eight STED projects, one CDS project, one KAU-RRII project, one NWDPRA project, one Food processing project funded by Ministry of Food Processing Industry, three DST projects, two DBT projects, two PPIC projects and one RSMM project. Mandate : Lead functions are research under partially shaded conditions and export-oriented vegetables and cut flower production. The Centre has verification functions on rice, fruits, homestead farming, coconut, tuber crops, vegetabeles, farm machinery for garden lands, AICRPs on forage crops, nematodes, oil seeds and pesticide residues are functioning here. Schemes TAMILNADU Karnataka Micro irrigation Scheme: Type: State and Central Government scheme Features: Assistance to farmers will be for covering a maximum area of five ha per beneficiary family. Assistance for drip and sprinkler demonstration will be 75% for the cost for a maximum area of 0.5ha per beneficiary which will be met entirely by the Central Government. The focus will be on horticultural crops being covered under the National Horticulture Mission. However there is a provision to include all horticultural crops. A cluster approach will be adopted. The Scheme includes both drip and sprinkler irrigation. However, sprinkler irrigation will be applicable only for those crops where drip irrigation is uneconomical. There will be strong HRD input for the farmers, field functionaries and other stake holders at different levels. Besides there will be publicity campaigns, se inars/workshops at extensive locations to develop skills and improve awareness among farmers about importance of water conservation and management. The Precision Farming Development Centres (PFDCs) will provide research and technical support for implementing the scheme. Funding Patten: 40% from Central Government and 35% from State Government and 25% from beneficiary either through his/her own resources or soft loan from financial institutions (the subsidy for Drip Irrigation in Bijapur & Kolar districts is 100%) Eligibility: All categories of farmers are covered under the Scheme. Persons to be contacted: DistrictDeputy Director of Horticulture (ZP)/ Taluk Senior Assistant Director of Horticulture/ Assistant Director of Horticulture KERALA CENTRAL SCHEMES Instituational Schemes: Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MFPI) Scheme for Technology Upgradation / Establishment/ Modernization of Food Processing Industries. The assistance will be in the form of grant subject to 25% of the plant and machinery and technical civil works subject to a maximum of Rs.50 lakhs in General Areas and 33.33% up to Rs.75 lakhs in Difficult Areas. Food Park 25% of the project cost in General Areas and 33.33% in Difficult Areas subject to a maximum of Rs.4 crores for provision of common facilities like cold storage, food testing and analysis laboratory, effluent treatment plant, common processing facilities, power, water supply, etc. Integrated Cold Chain Facilities 25% of the cost of plant and machinery and technical civil works in General Areas and 33.33% in Difficult Areas with a common ceiling of 75 lakhs. Value Added Centre 25% of the cost of plant and machinery and technical civil works for setting up such centre subject to a ceiling of Rs.50 lakhs in general areas and 33.33% subject to a maximum of Rs.75 lakhs in difficult areas is provided. Irradiation Facilities 25% of the cost of plant and machinery and technical civil works for setting up of irradiation facilities in General Areas and 33.3% in Difficult Areas subject to a maximum of Rs.5 crores is provided. Packaging Centre 25% of the total cost of plant and machinery and technical civil work in General Areas and 33.33% in Difficult Areas, subject to maximum of Rs.2 cores, is provided for establishing packaging centre independently and in food parks (where the packaging centre is not already a part of the common facilities). Food Processing Industries The assistance will be in the form of grant subject to 25% of the plant and machinery and technical civil works subject to a maximum of Rs.50 lakhs in General Areas and 33.33% up to Rs.75 lakhs in Difficult Areas. National Co-operative Development Corporation (NCDC) Strengthening of share capital base of fruit and vegetable cooperatives. Margin money assistance for raising working capital. Assistance for purchase of transport vehicles Construction of packing and grading sheds and godowns. Construction of Cold Storages & Ice Plants. Creation of marketing infrastructure including retailing. Setting up of Processing Units. NCDC’s assistance Fruits & Vegetables The Corporation has, so far, assisted 446 projects in the country to enable cooperatives to market fruit and vegetables. In this, 32 projects for setting up of pre-cooling and cold storage units for marketing and export of grapes and other fruits. NCDC also assists fruit & vegetable cooperatives for establishment of fruit and vegetable processing units. Cold Storage NCDC has cumulatively assisted setting up of 312 cold storages (including capacity expansion) with a capacity of 9.22 lakh tons. The assisted cold storages are mainly for storage of potatoes, though items like fruits, tamarind, spices, milk products etc. are also being stored. Eligibility Criteria for availing Financial Assistance · The project should be technically feasible and economically viable. · Most of the raw material requirement should be available from within the area of operation of the society. · The cooperative character of the unit should be maintained. · The society should have firm arrangements for marketing of fruit & vegetable items. NHB Schemes DEVELOPMENT OF COMMERCIAL HORTICULTURE THROUGH PRODUCTION AND POST- HARVEST MANAGEMENT (A) COMPONENTS High Quality commercial horticulture crops Indigenous crops/produce. herbs Aromatic Plants Seed & Nursery Biotechnology, Tissue Culture Bio-pesticides Organic Foods Estt. Of Hort. Health linics/Laboratory 9For Agri /Horti unemployed graduates) Consultancy Services Bee-Keeping. PHM/Primary processing related Grading /Washing/Shorting/Drying Packing Centers Pre-cooling Units/Cool Stores Refer Van/Containers Sp. Transport Vehiciess Retail Outlets Auction Plateform Ripening curing Chamber Market yard/rope ways Radiation unit Dehydration unit Vapour Heat Treatment unit. Primary processing of products fermentation, extraction, distillation, juice vending pulping, dressing, cutting, chopping etc. Horti. Ancilliary industry e.g tools equipment plastics, packing etc. Carttones, Aseptic packing & Nets (50% subsid) PARTERN OF ASSITANCE Back-ended capital investment subsidy not exceeding 20% of the project cost with a maximum limit of Rs. 25 lakh per Project. (rs. 30 lakhs for North East/ Trival Areas) of Production Post Harvest Management and Primary processing of the horticulture Produce. PROCESSING FEE 1. Project with cost upto Rs.10.00 lakh 0.1% of the project cost 2. Projects with cost above Rs. 10.00 lakh and upto Rs. 20.00 lakh 0.25% of the project cost 3 Project with cost above Rs. 20.00 lakh 0.5% of the project cost CAPITAL INVESTMENT SUBSIDY SCHEME FOR CONSTRUCTION/EXPANSION/ MODERNIZATION OF COLD STORAGES FOR HORTICULTURE PRODUCE (A) COMPONENTS Cold storage Controlled Atmosphere (CA)/Modified Atmosphere (MA) Storage Onion Storage (B) PATERN OF ASSISTANCE Back-ended capital investment subsidiy not exceeding 25% of the project cost with a maximum limit of Rs.50 lakhs per project (Rs.60 lakhs for North East areas @ 33%) (C) HOW TO APPLY Project involving term loan may be submitted to Banks/FIs?NCDC as the case may be for appraisal/sanction of loan and release of NHB subsidy. For self-finance projects, LOI in prescribed format is needed. (D) PROCESSING FEE 1. Project with cost upto Rs.10.00 lakh 0.1% of the project cost 2. Projects with cost above Rs. 10.00 lakh and upto Rs. 20.00 lakh 0.25% of the project cost 3 Project with cost above Rs. 20.00 lakh 0.5% of the project cost TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSFER Introduction of New Technologies. Domestic visit of farmers Technology Awareness Upto 100% financial assistance as under Upto Rs.25.00 lakh As per actual Upto Rs.50,000/seminar MARKET INFORMATION SERVICE FOR HORTICULTURE CROPS General information on wholesale prices,arrivals and trendsin various markets for horticulture produce and Dissemination of information through Media & Publications To assist farmers, exporters, dealers research organisations etc. HORTICULTURE PROMOTION SERVICE Techno-Economic Feasibility Studies to review the present status of horticulture development in particular area/state. Identify constraints and suggest remedial measures Develop short term & long terms strategies Provide consultancy services and expert services Studies through Professional Consultants. 100% financial assistance Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Frequently Asked Question 's Season & Climate Varieties Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease Post Harvest Technology Banana Processing Contract All | Expand All Season & Climate How to select a planting material? There are two types of planting materials The commonly used propagation material is sucker or corms. The sucker should be a sword sucker, with narrow leaves of 3 to 4 months old, weighing 1.5 to 2 Kgs. The suckers should be of uniform size, selected from disease free plantations. • Recently tissue cultured plants are becoming popular due to its disease free nature and potential for high yield. An ideal tissue culture plant should be about 30 cm height with 5 to 6 developed leaves having proper orientation. The leaves should not exhibit any malformation and chlorotic streaks. What are the precautions to be taken at the time of planting? If the planting material is a sucker, the roots should be trimmed and pared-off all tissues on the surface to make it free of nematode infestations. The pared corm should be dipped in a solution containing for 30 minutes. Alternatively application of 40g of Carbofuran in the soil at planting. For tissue culture plants, especially Robusta and Cavendish varieties should be applied with 10g Carbofuran and drenched with 0.1% Emisan to control nematodes and bacterial rot disease respectively in the polybag itself before planting. What kind of soil is suitable for banana cultivation? Loamy textured soil with at least 2 m. depth and proper drainage facilities is suitable for banana cultivation. The slope of the land should be <1%. There should not be subsurface hard pans and calcarious layers. The gravel content of the soil should not exceed 5%. What types of soils are most suitable for Banana crop? Grows well on free draining soils with steady supply of moisture. What are the Effects of low Temperature? The problems which result in a banana plantation from low winter temperatures serve to only emphasize the importance of adequate heat as a factor, in banana production. • The most important of these are 'choke throat' 'November dump' and frost damage. What are the suitable varieties grown well in Wetland? The suitable varities grown well in wetland are Poovan, Rasthalli, Monthan, Karpooravalli and Ney Poovan at the month of February - April and Nendran and Robusta are grown well at the month of April - May What are the suitable varieties grown well in Garden land? The suitable varities grown well in Garden lands are Robusta, Nendran,D.Cavendish at the month of january to febraury and November to December What are the suitable varieties grown well in Padugai lands? All the varities are grown well at the month of Jan-Feb and Aug-Sep. What are the suitable varieties grown well in Hills? The suitable varities grown well in Hills are Namaran,Ladan,ManoranjithamSirumalai,Virupakshi at the month of April-May and June-Aug Which season is suitable for banana planting? Wet lands: Feb – April : Poovan, Rasthali, Monthan, Karpooravalli and Neypoovan. April – May : Nendran and Robusta Garden lands: January – February and November – December. Padugai lands: January – February and August – September. Hill Banana: April – May (lower Palani hills), June – August (Sirumalai) How wind damage influence yield in banana plantation? Wind exerts profound influence on growth and production of banana and it is considered as the greatest scourge in banana plantation. Wind velocity more than 50 km/hour causes serious damage to banana plantation. Pseudostems at preflower initiation stage are sometimes cut above ground level to avoid severe wind damage. A wind velocity of 18-30 km/h is sufficient to spilt the leaf lamina. Winds at 54-72 km/h can upturn and blow down large plantation while winds at 90-100 km/h completely destroy banana plantations. What is optimum temperature required for banana cultivation? Banana is a humid tropical plant, coming up well in a temperature range of 10C- 40C with an average of 23°C. What are the reasons for smaller bunches in banana? In cooler climate, the duration is extended, sucker production is affected and bunches become smaller. Low temperature i.e. less than 10C are unsuitable since they lead to a condition called choke or impeded inflorescence and bunch development. " What is the effect of low temperature during bunch forming in banana? If bunch emergence coincides with low temperature, it results in inflorescence emerging through pseudostem. Chilling temperature results in malformed bunches. What is the effect of high temperature in banana? High temperature leads to loss in growth. Name the varieties which is tolerate to low temperature? Tall varieties, in general, are more tolerant to cold temperature above freezing point. The variety 'Monthan' Dwarf Cavendish or ' khasadia' can tolerate low temperature. Varieties What kind of soil is suitable for banana cultivation? Loamy textured soil with atleast 2m. depth and proper drainage facilities is suitable for banana cultivation . The slope of the land should be leass than 1% there should not be subsurface hard pans and calcarious layer. the gravel content of the soil should not exceed 5%. Name the varieties suitable for ratooning of banana? Poovan What are the varieties which resistant drought in banana? Monthan, Karpuravalli Name the varieties suitable for perennial banana cultivation? Virupakashi and Sirumalai are the two main types. These are perennial bananas of high quality. Name the hybrid banana released from Tamil Nadu? CO1 banana is a hybrid developed at TNAU, Coimbatore. it takes about 14 month duration. The average bunch weight is 10 kg. Name the varieties tolerant to sigatoka leaf spot? Ney Poovan, Pachanadan, Karpuravalli, Fhia 1 (Gold finger), Sannachenkadali Name the varieties tolerant to panama wilt disease? Dwarf Cavendish, Robusta, Fhia 1 (Gold finger), Anai komban, Nivedya Kadali. Name the varieties tolerant to bunchy top disease? Poovan, Pachanadan What are the high yielding varieties of banana? Dwarf Cavendish, Robusta What are the special features of Naattu Vazhai? Unripe fruits are used for culinary purpose, ripe fruits are used for dessert purpose. What are the promising hybrids in banana? H1, H2, Co1, Fhia 1 (Gold finger), Fhia 3 Name the varieties of banana suitable for Tamil Nadu? Nendran, Monthan, Poovan, Matti, Namarai What are the special features of hill banana? The hill banana is a speciality of Tamil Nadu much esteemed for its good flavor and keeping quality. These are perennial bananas of high quality. There are mainly two types, Sirumali and Virupakshi. Srumalai fruits are tastier than virupakshi. If cultivated in plains, hill bananas will lose their fruit quality. What are the characteristics features of Nendran variety? The fruits of this variety are eaten raw and also used for preparing various dishes especially chips. Each bunch of fruit has minimum of 5 clusters (hands) weighing about 12-25 kg. The harvest of this variety is connected to Onam (a harvest festival in the month of August or September). The fruits are also best for the preparation of Banana Chips. Cultivation Practices Are tissue culture plants better than suckers? Yes, tissue culture plants are high yielding and healthy as they are multiplied from high yielding mother plants free from viruses. The plants are also free from soil borne pest and diseases like wilt, Erwinia rot and nematodes at the time of planting. Can we go for ratooning of tissue culture plants? Yes, tissue culture plants can be ratooned for 2 crops economically Are suckers from tissue culture plants as good as original tissue culture plants? Yes, they are as good as original tissue culture plants in respect of high yielding ability. But they are not free from viruses and soil borne diseases and pests. Can we get tissue culture plants for planting one acre or more from NRCB? No, at NRCB commercial multiplication is not being done. We supply only samples to interested growers at free of cost and mother cultures to institutions at nominal rates depending upon the availability and demand. What is the reason for non flowering of the tissue culture plants, sometimes? The tissue culture plants may undergo mutation and result in off types, if sufficient care is not taken in the multiplication stage. The permissible limit for off types as per the DBT guidelines is 1%. So quality of planting materials should be important before planting and it should be from reputed companies. Are there any new planting methods? Yes, there are two high density planting methods. One is planting three suckers per hill at a spacing of 1.8x3.6m (4500 plant/ha.) for Robusta and Nendran varieties planting at 2x4m for tall varieties like Poovan, Rasthali, Ney Poovan, etc. (3750 plant/ha Another method is called Paired row system, planting at a spacing of 1.2 X1.2X2 m with a population of 5200 plants/ha. What is the advantage of new high density planting method? The advantage is 50-100% increase in population per unit area, 25-30% reduction in fertilizer and water consumption, 30-40 percent reduction in cost of cultivation and 30-40% increase in profit per unit area. What is Earthing up in banana? Earthing up should be done during the rainy season to provide drainage, and to avoid water logging at the base. During summer and winter, the plants should be in furrow and on ridges during rainy season. What is Gapfilling? what is the correct time? Generally the banana suckers strikes roots within 10-15 days after planting, even after 15 days if there are no roots to the planted suckers it means it has died. Inspite of all precautions taken, some suckers may fail to sprout. This may be due to defective planting or defective plant material or defective irrigation. So, one should go around after 15 days in banana gardens and search for the causalities. All such causalities should immediately be gap filled with fresh sword suckers. Maintaining optimum population for unit area always leads to higher yields. So all gaps in the banana plantation must be filled with fresh suckers within 20 days. This will also ensure fair uniformity in the stand of the crop. What are the stages involved in Tissue culture banana? Initiation Stage. Multiplication Stage. Shooting and Rooting Stage. Hardening Stage. What happen in the initiation stage of banana in Tissue culture? The innermost tissue of surface sterilized plant in dissected aseptically and put an to the medium of growth, Medium contains major and miner elements, same vitamins. Amino acids and growth promoting hormones, solidified by agar. What happen in the multiplication stage of banana in Tissue culture? When the tissue starts growth in stage I and forms a shoot it is transferred to another medium containing growth promoting hormones (enhancing cell division). The growing shoot multiplies and forms a dump of 3-4 shoots. Those are transferred to another medium for shooting and rooting after optimum growth. What happen in the Shooting and Rooting Stage of banana in Tissue culture? After multiplication, the single shoots are separated and placed into a shooting are rooting medium. At this stage the hormones may or may not be required. The shoot elongates and new root came up. Rooting takes place within 3-4 weeks. What happen in the Hardening Stage of banana in Tissue culture It involves acclimatization of bottle grown plants to the natural environment in Green House. The plants are taken out of the bottle and the media adhering to the root system in washed fully. After wards the plants are graded as per their size and then transferred singly to wells of portrays containing sterile medium (a mixture of peat moss and perlite). The whole portray with plants is maintained under high humidity conditions for a couple of weeks and there after the portrays are kept in open in the Green House under controlled temperature and humidity. This hardening taken 6 weeks and is called primary hardening - Regular sprays of plant protection chemicals are sprayed to achieve good hygienic condition of the plants. What is meant by Banana intercropping? Intercropping in banana gardens with annual crops can be remunerative. Farmers with limited resources have traditionally multicropped their lands to minimize risks associated with growing a single crop and to ensure more stable subsistence in terms of food nutrition and possible income. Bananas are mostly grown by small and marginal farmers. With holdings less than a hectare, they can hardly be expected to raise a pure crop of banana. Intercrops can easily be raised in banana plantation at the early stages of growth. Radish, cauliflower, cabbage, spinach, chilli, brinjal, colocassia, yam, dioscorea, lady's finger, basella, cucurbitaceous vegetables, marigold, tuberose are grown as Intercrops. Mixed cropping with arecanut and coconut is a common practice in south India. Banana is grown as a nurse crop to provide shade for young plants of on orchard. Cassava/plantain combination is one of the most efficient cropping systems. The total returns was highest in banana intercropped with bhendi followed by cluster bean lablab and the least in pure crop of banana. What is meant by Banana Ripening? Bananas are not usually allowed to ripen on the tree as it takes long time. Moreover, the fruit-peel splits, fruit ripens unevenly and fails to develop good colour and aroma, hence the marketable quality deteriorates. Therefore, banana needs to be ripened artificially. In tropical conditions, fruits for local consumption are harvested and ripened by hanging the bunches in a shady place. Some considered four enzymes as catalysts, which increased with ripening particularly at temperature below 300 C. The predominant carbohydrate of green banana was found to be starch which hydrolysed to sucrose, glucose and fructose on ripening. Smoke treatment causes ripening of the bunches within 3 days. Ripening is also done by keeping the bunches covered with gunny sacks. Ethrel, ethylene and temperature promoted respiration can cause ripening of the fruits . Ethylene at a concentration of 1 part per thousand also helps to initiate ripening of banana. In commercial trade, ripening is initiated by using various chemical substances. Growth regulating chemicals, such as 2, 4-D, 2, 4, 5-T, IAA and TBZ have been tried to hasten ripening. 2, 4-D is the cheapest chemical for inducing artificial ripening, and 1000 ppm of 2, 4-D for 30 seconds was optimum. What is the application of Micronutrient of Zinc in Banana? Zinc deficiency is found in banana when it grows in zinc deficient soils. Narrow pointed and chlorite young leaves,Bunch top crowns are the symptoms of zinc deficiency. Application of 50 g/plant zinc sulphate at the time of planting is recommended or foliar application of zinc sulphate at 3 g/litre + urea (5g per litre) + 10 ml non ionic sticker in 20 litres of water. The above prepared solution is sprayed at 45 and 60 days after planting. For ratoon crop 45 days after cutting the mother plant. What is the application of Micronutrient of Boron in Banana? Deficiency of boron may results in reduction in weight and size of the bunch and it will effects the proper filling of the bunch. For boron deficiency apply 20 g borax per litter at the time of planting of spray boric acid at 0.2 % in 4th of 5th month after planting. What is the application of Micronutrient of Iron in Banana? Iron deficiency has been recorded in alkaline soils and is identified by interveinal chlorosis of young leaves. Application of iron sulphate will correct the iron deficiency What is the application of Micronutrient of Magnesium in Banana? Magnesium deficiency symptoms show green banding around the margin and next to the midrib. Spraying magnesium sulphate 2 g/l of water effectively corrects the deficiency. What weed control practices are to be followed for rainfed Banana In line sown crop 2-3 inter-cultivations are necessary. In assured rainfall and irrigated areas spraying 2,4-D sodium salt @0.75 kg.a.i./ha as post-emergent spray around 20 to 25 days after sowing effectively controls weeds. Isoproturon @ 0.5 a.i. /ha as pre-emergence spray is also effective in control of weeds. In broadcast crop two effective hand weedings will minimize weeds as inter cultivations is not possible. What are the crops that can be rotated with Banana? Legumes like green gram / black gram / field gram / soybean / horse gram or ground nut in southern state will minimize inorganic fertilizer application and also sustain higher yields. Banana – Maize (2 year crop rotation) gave higher yield per unit area as compared to Banana – Banana crop rotation. What are the crops that can be intercropped with Banana? Intercrops includes field bean (Lablab purpureus), pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan), cowpea (Vigna sinensis), and niger (Guizotia abysinnica), castor bean, niger, groundnut and pulses. With groundnuts, Banana is the subsidiary crop. In hills it is grown mixed with soybean. Sometimes the Banana intercropped with mustard, because mustard flowers bloom during the early stages of the Banana crop and attracts lady bird beetles, a predator of aphids, attacking the Banana crop. In case of rain failure, mustard acts as an insurance crop. Irrigation Management What is fertigation? Providing required quantity of fertilizers mainly N and K either daily or weekly in small quantities through drip irrigation system is called fertigation. The high density planting coupled with drip irrigation/ fertigation would greatly reduce cost of cultivation and enhance productivity. What is surface drip irrigation? The application of water to the soil surface as drops or a tiny stream through emitters placed at predetermined distance along the drip lateral is termed as surface drip irrigation. It can be of two types - online or integral type surface drip system. Integral dripline is recommended for sugarcane. What is the frequency of fertigation? Banana plants require 16-20 lit. of water. The water soluble / conventional fertilizers are dissolved and applied through drip daily or at weekly intervals, so that the absorption and utilization are maximum. More number of split application of fertilizers at proper stage along with micronutrients is possible in fertigation. What is meant by Irrigation Schedule? Irrigate the plants immediately after planting. After that irrigate at weekly intervels for about 35-40 times. Rainfall requiement for banana growing areas should be 1500-2000 mm. In summer irrigate for every 5-10 days depending up on the type of soil. Irrigation through drip system will induce early bunch formation and arround 40-45% water can be saved. Drip system has to be operated daily for 2-3 1/2 hours. Delay in irrigation for banana results in delay in bunch formation, delay in maturity of bunch and quality also will be effected. Define the advantages of drip irrigation? High water use efficiency (~95%, compared to less than 50% in surface). Flexibility of wetted area. Versatile selection of emitters: type, discharge rate, position. Economy in weed control Low interference with cultivation. Day and night irrigation. Prevention of leaf wetting. Water Saving 30 - 70%. Energy & Labor saving up to 50% , about 1200-1500 kwh/ha electricityImproves fertilizer use efficiency up to 95%. Enhanced plant growth & yield up to 30 - 50%Salinity control. Irrigation at variable topographic conditions. What is meant by Drip Irrigation System? Application of water in the form of discrete droplets directly to the root zone of the crop through a network of pipeline Why we use Drip Irrigation System? Alleviate water stress during critical periods of vine growth and fruit development • Maintain consistent yields. Maintain fruit quality. Facilitate fertility management. Prevent significant winter injury. Micro-irrigation will enhance production per unit inputs applied. What are the two methods following in the case of drip irrigation? Two methods are, Single Line System Double Line System What is meant by single Line System ? The spacing between the plants is 1.5 X 1.5 m. One lateral line and one dripper per plant are used. What is meant by Double Line System ? The distance between the lines is 1 m., between two plants is 1.5 m. and between two double lines is 1.8m. each. One lateral and one dripper for two plants are arranged. The distance between the two lines may also be 2.1 X 2.4 m. What is the average water requirement for banana? The total water requirement varied from 1841 mm to 2150 mm for the various conditions. The per day consumption of water varied from 4.81 to 6.11 mm. Irrigation schedule for banana? Irrigate immediately after planting; give life irrigation after 4 days; subsequent irrigations are to be given once in a week for irrigated plantations of garden lands and once in 10 – 15 days for wetlands. Irrigate the fields copiously after every manuring. Use drip irrigation @ 15 litres/ plant/day from planting to 4th month, 20 litres/plant/day from 5th to shooting and 25 litres /plant/ day from shooting till 15 days prior to harvest. How to increase water use efficiency in banana cultivation? Water use efficiency is greater with drip irrigation compared to basin system of irrigation, and the system i.e. drip irrigation saves up to 50% in water use. The yield of drip irrigated crop is also higher. Mulching also increases the water use efficiency. Name the advantages of drip irrigation in banana? Drip irrigation can reduce quantity of water and increases yield and decreases number of days to harvest and increases leaf production. What is the water requirement for rainfed banana cultivation? For rainfed production, average rainfall of 2000 to 2500 mm per year, well-distributed, is desirable, but banana often grows under less rainfall. How to conserve soil moisture in banana plantation? Mulching using sugarcane trash 5-6 tonnes/ha has been recommended for better production. Polythene mulch was also found beneficial for conserving moisture. Which irrigation method is best for banana cultivation? Drip irrigation is best compared to basin system of irrigation. Drip irrigation increases the water use efficiency by saving 50 % of water. What are the critical growth stages of banana for irrigation? Vegetative and flowering/ shooting stage. Growth and initial reproductive phases are most critical to soil moisture How inadequate irrigation affect banana yield? Inadequate irrigation to banana leads to delayed flowering, bunch size and delayed maturity of reduced fingers and also poor keeping quality of fruits. Nutrient Management Is there any difference in fertilizer dosage for tissue culture plants? Due to its vigorous growth and more number of roots, the tissue culture plants require 50% more fertilizers than the conventional plants. The fertilizers should be applied in 5-7 splits at 30 to 45 days interval as against 3 splits in conventional planting method. What is the NPK requirement of banana? Banana plant requires 200 g of nitrogen (N), 30-50 g of phosphorus (P) and 300-450 g of potassium (K) applied in 3-5 split doses. What are the suitable fertilizers for banana? Urea, ammonium sulphate, super phosphate, diammonium phosphate, potassium chloride (muriate of potash) and potassium sulphate (sulphate of potash). What is the requirement of micro nutrients in banana? The banana plants commonly exhibit micro nutrient deficiency symptoms for zinc and boran. To correct these deficiencies soil application of 25 g zinc sulphate/plant and 5 g of borax is recommended. Foliar spraying of 0.5% zinc sulphate and 0.05% boran is recommended between 3-5th month after planting. Any banana micronutrient mixture is available at NRCB? Yes. 'Banana Shakti', a micronutrient mixture is available at NRCB for sale (Rs.100/kg). What are the content of Banana Shakti? Banana Shakti contains all the essential micronutrients like iron, copper, zing, manganese and boron in optimum concentrations and in proper proportions. How much quantity of Banana Shakti should be applied per plant? Banana Shakti mixture should be applied at the rate of 10 g/plant. It indirectly increases the macronutrient use efficiency. Whether application of Banana Shakti mixture increases the yield? Yes, it increases the yield by 10-15% with an additional profit of Rs.10000 to Rs.15000 per hectare. Whether Banana Shakti mixture can be applied as a foliar spray Yes, the mixture is suitable for both soil and foliar application. Two percent foliar spray of this mixture in high pH soil avoids fixation of micronutrients in the soil. Whether micronutrient deficiency occurs in banana growing soils? Yes, Micronutrient deficiency generally occurs in sandy soils, which lacks micronutrient elements. High pH clay soils rich in micronutrients, have less micronutrient supplying power. In such types of soils, micronutrient deficiency is very common. How to rectify the micronutrient deficiency? In general, soil application of micronutrient is recommended, where the soil pH is less than 8.5 and foliar spraying of micronutrients is recommended where the soil pH is more than 8.5. • In case of soil application, 10 g of 'Banana Shakti' (micronutrient mixture developed at NRCB) per plant at 4th month after planting (MAP) is recommended. • In case of foliar spray, 2% Banana Shakti solution along with suitable adjuvant (sticking agent) at 4 MAP, 5 MAP and 6 MAP to correct the symptoms and increases the growth and yield. How to grow banana in alkali or sodic soils? In alkali or sodic soil, apply more quantity of organic manures (15 to 20 kg/plant). • Generally, banana roots have the capacity to eliminate or avoid sodium ion entry into the plant system from soil. This capacity could be enhanced by the presence of sufficient potassium ions in the soil. So, application of 20 to 30 per cent more potassic fertilizers is recommended. How to manage sodicity and alkalinity problem in banana cultivation? Before planting of banana, first apply 5 to 7 tonnes of gypsum (calcium sulphate) per hectare, incorporate thoroughly in to the soil by proper ploughing, then stagnate water in the field and after one week, drain it and improve the drainage facilities. • Apply 2 kg of gypsum per plant in the 60th day after planting, drain it with affluent water before application of fertilizers. • The soil K:Na ratio should be maintained as 2½ : 1 at any time during banana growth period. How to avoid marginal scorching of banana leaves in saline and sodic soils? Marginal scorching of banana leaves is observed in high pH soils and is due to accumulation of sodium ions in the leaves which lead to marginal chlorosis and subsequent necrosis. • To rectify this problem, application of 2 kg of gypsum/plant along with good irrigation. • Increase the quantity of potassium application in the fertilizer schedule by 20 percent. Give foliar spray of 2% potassium sulphate solution along with sticking agent. How to manage acid soils in banana cultivation? In banana cultivation under acid soils, apply 100 g CaCO3 (Calcite) or 100 g Dolomite (calcium-magnesium carbonate) per plant and avoid acid forming fertilizers like ammonium chloride, ammonium sulphate etc. Prefer single super phosphate and rock phosphate as phosphatic sources. Apply silicon rich, easily available materials like fly ash or rich husk ash or composted sugarcane trashes or paddy straw at the rate of 10 kg per plant, for better release of phosphate ions for banana growth. Is there any need of application of biofertilizers for rectifying the acidic soils? Yes, application of 25g of vesicular arbuscular micorhiza (VAM) and 25g of phosphobacteria per plant to increase the availability of insoluble phosphorus to plants in such soil conditions. The recommended dose of potassic fertilizers like KCl or K2SO4 should be applied in splits, in small quantities at a time. The optimum soil Ca:Mg:K ratio for banana cultivation is 10:5:1. This ratio should be maintained through regular soil testing. Is it possible to grow banana organically? A technology for growing banana organically by using organic fertilizers, bio pesticides and fungicides has been developed at this Centre. For organic bananas, there is a great demand for export and in domestic market. Successful organic farming is possible if the soil is highly fertile and rich in organic matter. Application of vermicompost in banana – economical or not? Application of vermicompost to banana is recommended and good for improving soil health. The farmers can produce the required vermicompost from their farm waste, it is more economical. What are the suitable organic manures for banana? Farm yard manure, vermicompost, poultry manure, pig manure, press mud, composted coir pith, goat manure, bone meal, blood meal, horn and hoof meal etc. are suitable organic manures for banana. What is the recommendation of fertilizer for banana in Karnataka? State Spacing (m) N(g) P2o6(g) K2O(g) FYM (kg/pl) Karnataka(DC) 1.8x1.8 540 325 675 40t/ha (Robusta) 2.2x2.2 405 245 507 40 t/ha Others 2x2 400 240 500 40 t/ha What is the biofertilizer recommendation for the rain fed Banana? Treating seeds with Azospirillum brasilense (N fixing bacterium) and Aspergillus awamori (P solubilizing fungus) @ 25 g/kg seed is beneficial How to apply the chemicals and biofertilizers to the seeds of rain fed Banana? In case seeds are to be treated with seed dressing chemicals, treat the seeds first with dressing chemicals and then with bio-fertilizers at the time of sowing. What is the procedure for applying the biofertilizers to rain fed Banana seeds? Step 1: Bio-fertilizer culture specific to the crop is to be used @ 25g /kg of seed. Step 2: Sticker solution is necessary for effective seed inoculation. This can be prepared by dissolving 25g jaggery or sugar in 250 ml water and boiling for 5 minutes. The solution thus prepared is cooled. Step 3: Smear the seeds well using the required quantity of sticker solution. Then add culture to the seeds and mix thoroughly so as to get a fine coating of culture on the seed. Step 4: The culture-coated seeds is to be dried well in shade to avoid clumping of seeds. Step 5: Use the inoculated seeds for sowing. How much is the Phosphorus content in Banana fruit? 283 mg per 100 g. How much is the protein content in Banana fruit? 7.3 g per 100 g. How much is the Carbohydrate content in Banana fruit? * 72 g per 100 g. How much is the Fat content in Banana fruit? 1.3 g per 100 g. How much is the Crude fibre content in Banana fruit? 3.6 g per 100 g. How much is the Mineral matter content in Banana fruit? 2.7 g per 100 g. How much is the Calcium content in Banana fruit? 344 mg per 100 g-maximum among cereals. How much is the True Digestibility (TD) of Banana fruit? 82% How much is the Biological Value (BV) of Banana fruit? 73.8%. How much is the Net Protein Utilization (NPU) of Banana fruit? 63.4%. Pest And Disease Is there any serious pest in banana? Pseudostem stem borer is becoming a serious pest affecting varieties like Nendran, Karpuravalli, Robusta and Rasthali. The incidence is observed after 5th month. This pest can be monitored and controlled by keeping the longitudinal split of Pseudostem of 90 cm length or disc on stump trap @100 per ha. How to identify banana stem weevil damage initially? Jelly exudation on the stem is the initial symptom of the stem weevil damage. Is there any chemical control for banana stem weevil? Chlorpyripos 2.5ml/l with adjuvant 1ml/l swabbing on the stem prevents infestation of banana stem weevil. Once jelly exudation is noticed Two injections per plant at 2 and 4 feet above the ground level till flowering. The injection needle should enter only two or three leaf sheaths and should not touch the central core. Where the biocontrol agents for insect control is available? The, National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB), Trichy is selling the mother inoculums of biocontrol agents for farmers which can be mass multiplied under farm house conditions by the farmers themselves. How to prepare banana stem trap for weevil control? Cut the stem into 90 cm length bits and split the same into two halves. Each piece will be used as a trap. These traps are to be placed @100/ha near the base of banana plants. The trapped weevils have to be collected manually and killed. Is there any biocontrol method available for stem weevil control? Yes, entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana and Heterorhabditis indica can be swabbed on the stem trap and kept in the garden. The weevils attracted to the traps will get infected and killed. This will avoid manual collection and killing of weevils. How to prepare banana stem trap with biocontrol agents? The longitudinal split traps can be swabbed on the cut surface with entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana @ 25g containing 1X109 CFU/gm or the entomopathogenic nematode Heterorhabditis indica @25ml/trap containing 1x108 IJs/ml. Keep the traps near the base of the plants. Where to get stem injector? Banana stem injector can be purchased from Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore or Secretary, Vanoli Uzhavar Sevai Maiyam, Chatram Bus Stand, Trichy 620 002. What are the control measures for banana leaf eating caterpillar? Spray Bacillus thuringiensis (2 gm/l with 1 ml adjuvant/l). Pheromone traps were also available which can be tied @ 10/ha at about 3 feet above ground level. Chemical control measure is spraying of chlorpyrifos @ 2.5 ml/l with adjuvant. What are the insects which cause problem during dry or drought weather conditions? Thrips (Helionothrips kadaliphilus) and foliar mite (Tetranychus sp.) and Eutetranychus orientalis infestation is more during dry weather. It can be controlled with spray of Dimethoate 1.5 ml/l with 1 ml adjuvant/l. What are the reasons for the banana plants being toppled down? The sudden toppling down of banana plants is due to heavy incidence of nematodes, resulting in poor anchorage. There are five major nematodes infesting banana and causing economical damage to the plants. This can be controlled by application of carbofuran 40g at time of planting and at 5th month after planting. What is Nematode? How do I see Nematodes? Nematodes are worms like structure feeding on the roots and damaging the plants. Nematodes cannot be seen through naked eye. It can be seen only through microscopes. How can such tiny organisms do serious damage? Nematodes attack the roots by piercing the tissues with their spear-like stylet and feeding on the cell contents. More damage occurs after nematodes invasion due to the infection by other organisms present in the soil, such as fungi and bacteria and What are the important nematode problems in banana? How much damage is caused by nematodes on banana? The most damaging and widespread nematodes attacking banana are : 1) The burrowing nematode. 2) Radopholus similis. 3) Root-lesion nematode. 4) Pratylenchus coffeae. 5) spiral nematode. 6) Helicotylenchus multicinctus. 7) Root-knot nematode. 8) Meloidogyne incognita. 9) cyst nematode. 10) Heterodera oryzicola. Nematodes form a major pest on banana and crop losses caused by nematodes is estimated about 20%. How to know, the banana plants are affected by nematodes? Nematode infested banana plants have poor growth with lanky pseudostems, foliar necrosis and produce very small bunches. However symptoms on roots and corms are more specific. Lesion-nematode produces small cuticular sunken lesions on the creamy white to light orange coloured portion of the main tender roots of banana. Whereas, on older roots surface cracks appear. This shows extensive reddish-brown lesions in cortex when cut longitudinally. These cause decay and death of distal cells. In heavily nematode infested field, banana plants topple over easily during wet and windy weather because of inadequate anchorage. Is there any nematode-fungal disease complex in banana? Yes. Incidence and losses due to banana wilt disease caused by Fusarium oxysporum f.sp.cubense is enhanced in association with major nematode pathogens viz. Radopholus similis, Pratylenchus coffeae or Meloidogyne incognita. Infection of nematodes prior to fungus or in combination resulted in the early onset and increased severity of the Fusarium wilt symptoms incidence Can a banana plant attacked by different nematodes be saved? Yes. Lesion nematodes can be effectively managed by applying Carbofuran 50g/plant, one at the time of planting and two applications after planting at 3 months interval. Plant recovery and yield increase was observed in the plants applied with Carbofuran. Is there any other non-chemical control method for nematodes? Nowadays, non-chemical methods are receiving greater attention in view of the chemical residual toxicity and the pollution of soil and environment. Marigold (Tagetes spp.) grown as an inter crop reduced the root lesion nematode population with 25 per cent yield increase. Crop rotation with paddy, sugarcane, green gram, sunnhemp (Crotolaria juncea) followed by banana are recommended. Cultivation of sunnhemp is generally recommended prior to planting in order to manage the nematode population. How to get nematode free planting material? Select the suckers from nematode free banana field. Otherwise, collect the planting material after paring immerse the suckers in hot water at 50-55°C for 20 minutes or dip the suckers in 0.1 percent solution for 30 minutes to get nematode free planting material. Which is the best and cheapest control method for nematode? Newer nematicides Rugby 10G applied at 5g per plant during 3 and 5th month reduced the nematode population and increased the yield. The cost is much cheaper. o Among different neem formulations, an Econeem formulation was found to be very effective in reducing the nematode populations and enhanced plant growth. What are the biocontrol agents available to control nematode infesting banana? Biocontrol agents like Paecilomyces lilacinus, Verticillium chlamydosporium, V.lecanii, Pasteuria penetrans, Bacillus subtilis and VAM Glomus mosseae were found very effective in reducing the nematode population and increase the plant growth. How to identify and manage viral diseases? Based on characteristic symptoms induced by individual virus, it can be identified. Virus indexing using diagnosis kit can be used to detect viruses. Which varieties are susceptible to wilt pathogens? Cultivars like Ney Poovan, Rasthali, Virupakshi, Sakkia, Monthan, Red Banana and Nadan are susceptible to wilt pathogens. How to manage leaf spot diseases? Spray 0.1% Propicanazole at 20 days interval. Remove old diseased, infected hanging leaves before spray. 3-4 sprays may be given. The same fungicides should not be repeated and different fungicides like Carbendazim (0.1%), Calixin (0.2%) Mancozeb or Copper oxychloride (0.25%) may be sprayed with any wetting agent (5ml/10 l water) on the underside of the leaf gives very good control of leaf spot diseases. Pseudostem split symptom, is it caused by wilt pathogen? Yes, the FOC can cause pseudostem split symptoms. Similar symptoms are also noticed with Erwinia rot disease. How to manage wilt in banana? Use pathogen free suckers, pairing and pralinage of suckers, application of Furadon and dipping in 1% Bavistin is necessary before planting. Use tissue culture plants. Drenching and injection with 2% Bavistin (3ml/plant) can minimize the spread. Post Harvest Technology What is the apt time for harvesting rain fed Banana? Banana matures 3 to 5 months after sowing, depending on variety, season and soil properties. When the earhead on the main shoot and 50% of the earheads on the crop turn brown, the crop is ready for the harvest. What are the harvesting practices to be followed for rain fed Banana? Rainfed crops are cut close to ground, stalks are allowed to wither for a day or two in field, and then bundled and stacked for about 2 months before threshing. To separate the fruits, dried ear heads are beaten with sticks; sheaves are trodden by bullocks or crushed by stone rollers. Separate fruits are winnowed and cleaned. What are the harvesting practices for Banana under irrigated conditions? Banana under irrigated condition is harvested about 3.5 months after transplanting. Ear heads are gathered when they ripen; 3 or 4 pickings are usually required to collect all ear heads from a field. Heap the harvested ear heads and cover the heaps with Banana straw for 2 to 3 days as a time for drying before threshing. Straw from irrigated plants is coarse and thick and is rarely cut. It is grazed down or sometimes turned under as manure for next crop. What is the maturity index for harvesting Banana under irrigated conditions? Under irrigated conditions, crop is harvested about 3.5 months after transplanting. In case of rain fed Banana harvest the crop when the ears are yellowish brown. What is the right time to harvest Banana? The maturity indices are based on the age of the bunch, the interval between flowering and harvesting (IFH), the filling of the fingers or the colour of the skin and pulp. The filling of the fingers is the criterion mostly used. Generally, bunches were ready for harvesting 100 -150 days after flowering. In case of Grand Naine (G9) variety, 1st harvest was done11 months after planting and 1st ratoon crop comes to harvest within 10 months and 2nd ratoon can be harvested 9 months after the second harvest. Hence from properly maintained Banana field, three harvests can be done within 30 months. What are the best yield indicators of Banana c.v.robusta at 70 days after planting (DAP)? Number of leaves and Plant girth (Co-efficient of determination (R2 ) 88 %) with optimum values as 8 leaves and 15.07 cm were the best indicators of crop yield. What are the best yield indicators of Banana c.v.robusta at 126 days after planting? Plant girth and Number of leaves (R2 89 %) with optimum values as 34.5 cm and 12 leaves were the best indicators of crop yield. What are the best yield indicators of Banana c.v.robusta at 185 days after planting? Plant height and Leaf length (R2 92%) with optimum values as 138.9 cm and 127.3 cm were the best indicators of crop yield. What are the best yield indicators of Banana c.v.robusta at 250 days after planting? Plant height and Plant girth (R2 90%) with optimum values as 159.21 cm and 67.8 cm were the best indicators of crop yield. What are the best yield indicators of Banana c.v.robusta at 315 days after planting? Leaf breadth & Leaf length (R2 81%) with optimum values as 67.2 cm and 164.1 cm were the best indicators of crop yield. What are the best yield indicators of Banana c.v.robusta at 375 days after planting (Harvest)? Number of fingers /bunch and Number of hands/ bunch (R2 99%) with optimum values as 26 fingers /hand and 13 hands/ bunch were the best indicators of crop yield. How to store Banana fruits after harvesting practices? In less humid places, use fresh gada cloth for short term storage. For long term storage, in humid places 700 gauge ploythene bag may be used and also Banana fruits are stored in metallic tins, earthen fruit bins, and gunny bags. Underground pits called hagevu in Karnataka, India were bottle shaped excavations used to store Banana. Banana seeds resist insect and fungal attacks, but it is preferable to dust the storage bags with lindane. How to do milling in Banana? Banana can be milled by wet conditioning. It can be steamed followed by milling in a hammer or plate mill or a roller flour mill. What is Dehandling? After harvest, dehandling should be carried out with a sharp, clean,Banana knife, making a smooth cut as close as possible to the stem. After dehandling, the fruits are placed with the crown facing downwards onto a layer of leaves to allow for latex drainage. In order to restrict crown disease development, the hands should be dipped in a solution of 0.1% Benlate or Thiabendazole. What is Precooling? The fruit destined for the distant and export market should be precooled considerably for extending the storage life. Precooling of the produce should be done within 10 -12 hrs of bunch harvesting. The fruit packed in boxes should be precooled by forced air cooling at 13 0 c and 85 - 90% RH. It may take 6 to 8 hrs to bring the fruit pulp temperature to 13° from field temperature of 30 to 35 0 c. The boxes should be immediately moved to cold rooms for storage purpose. What is Waxing? Waxing is an important operation for extending the shelf life of the fruit. The Banana hands have to be dipped in 6% wax emulsion for 30-60 seconds. This results in delayed ripening of fruit. It also improves the flavour and taste. A second dip of Banana hands in 12% wax emulsion extends the shelf life of fruits for more than 5 weeks. What are the signs of maturity present in Banana? The fruits are harvested when top leaves start drying. The colour of the fruit changes from deep green to a lighter green. Shedding of floral ends of fruits with slightest touch of the hand The angles or ridges of the fruits become less prominent or they change from angular to round. Banana Processing Is Banana better than rice to serve as a diet for poor people? The nutritive value of Banana is better than that of rice and other cereals. Banana is especially valuable as it contains the amino acid methionine, which is lacking in the diets of hundreds of millions of the poor who live on starchy staples such as cassava, plantain, polished rice, or maize meal. What is the most effective method for extending the storage life of fruits? Storing the fruits at optimum low temperature is the most effective method for long term storage of fruits and methods like waxing, packing in flexible films, use of ethylene absorbents could be used for short term storage of fruits at room temperature. Is there any nutritive value in Banana husk just like wheat fruits? The husk forms 5.6 per cent of the weight of the fruit. It is rich in calcium, phosphorus and iron, the calcium content is higher than in the common cereals and millets. The major proteins of Banana are prolamins and gluteins and they appear to be adequate in all the essential amino acids. Germinated finger millet is used to make weaning foods for infants. Whether juice can be prepared from pulpy fruits like banana, sapota, jackfruits? It is possible. But before making the product the extracted pulp has to be liquefied using suitable enzymes so that the pulp becomes thin and usable for juice. What are the possible products out of Banana fruit as food? The fruit is used in the preparation of food items such as Banana dosa, Banana balls, pancake, vermicelli, malt, biscuit, beer, papads, millet mix, bread, roti etc. The fruit is made into a fermented drink (or beer). It is also used for as a flavoured drink in festivals. Straw makes valuable fodder for both working and milking animals. How far Banana is good in health and medicinal point of view? Finger millet is a popular food among diabetic patients in the country. Its slow digestion indicates low blood sugar levels after a finger millet diet thereby reacting as a safer food for diabetics. The leaf juice has been given to women in childbirth. Banana can prevent leprosy, liver disease, measles, pleurisy, pneumonia, and small pox in long term. Banana has the highest calcium content and good fiber content. This is a very good source of calcium for young growing children and aged people who need calcium supplement. How to make Banana noodles? Sieve 70 g of refined wheat flour (control) and 30 g of Banana flour blends in a BS 60 mesh sieve, steam for five minutes, cool and sieve again. Fill the flour in the mixing compartment of the pasta-making machine and blend with water 30 ml and salt 2g for 30 minutes and extrude. Steam the noodles for 5 minutes. Allow to temper in room temperature for 8 hours. Dry in a cabinet drier at 60 for 6 hours. How to make Banana vermicelli? Banana vermicelli is similar to Banana noodles except for that the floor composition as follows Refined wheat flour – 30 g Whole wheat flour – 40g. Mix them and fill it pasta making machine, extrude, steam and dry them. How to make Banana idiyappam? Banana idiyappam is similar to Banana noodles except for that the floor composition as follows * Rice flour – 80 g * Banana – 30g Mix them and fill it pasta making machine, extrude, steam and dry them. What is Banana mudde? How to prepare it? Banana mudde is a food item unique to the state of Karnataka, India. It is mainly popular with the rural folk of Karnataka. Banana mudde is made of Banana flour by pouring the flour into boiling water with some amount of salt. Mix it together to make soft dough. The dough is then made into tennis-ball sized balls (mudde) and served hot. Banana mudde is usually eaten with ghee and sambar. How to make Banana mudde along with rice? Take 4 cups of water and a fistful of rice fruits in a saucepan, add salt and bring to a boil. Cover and cook the rice until the fruits are soft and then just pour or dump Banana flour into the pot. Don't stir now; this is the way folks back at home cook. Cover and put this mixture on medium heat for few minutes until the steam lifts the plate covering the pan. Using a wooden masher or whisk, stir the Banana-rice mixture vigorously with no lumps. Let the stove in simmer heat and do steam cooking for about 15 minutes. After cooking, let it cool down a bit and make mudda or balls out of with hands or ice cream scooper. Place the Banana mudda in a bowl and pour the sambhar over it. Not too cold and not too hot, just warm is perfect for the palate. Drizzle ghee over it How to make Banana malt? Take 1 tablespoon Banana flour in a cup. Add half glass water slowly. Combine to smooth, lump free paste. Do not add the flour directly to boiling water, it will clump into lumps. In a vessel, heat till the water or milk reaches boiling stage.Then add the dissolved Banana flour solution slowly to the boiling water (or milk), continuously stirring to prevent lumps. If you add the flour mix to water before the boiling stage, the flour will separate and it won't be suitable to drinking. Add sugar or jaggery and pinch of cardamom (Elachi) powder. Reduce the heat to medium level, and simmer the Banana malt for 5 minutes, stirring in-between. Turn off the heat. Let it cool to warm, and then pour into a glass or cup. This serves for two cups. How to make Banana halwa? Fry 100g Banana flour in 50g ghee in a heavy bottom kadai. Add coconut milk powder with the flour and cook the flour in water. When it thickens add 100g sugar. When the halwa forms a mass, add 50g ghee and stir. Stir continuously till the halwa leaves the sides of the pan and the ghee separates from halwa. Add the coarsely ground cashew nuts. Spread on a greased tray and cut into pieces. How to make ready to use beverage mix? Clean and soak Banana for 12 hrs. Allow it to germinate for 48hrs. Shade dry them for 24hrs and devegetate them followed by kilning at 700 – 750C. Grind it in a local floor mill. Perform sieving in a BS 80 mesh. To make it a malt floor add, milk powder, powdered sugar or jiggery and pack it with minimum moisture. What are the common products that can be prepared from banana fruits? The products that can be prepared from banana fruits are: BananaChips. Banana beverages. Clarified juices. Mixed fruit jam. What is the normal shelf life of processed products? Normally at ambient conditions of storage the processed products will have a minimum shelf life of 6 months. Canned products will have one year shelf life at ambient conditions of storage itself. The shelf life of others can be doubled by storing at refrigerated conditions. What is the difference between jam and jelly? ams are prepared using the fruit pulp, while jelly is prepared using fruit extract only and hence jelly will be somewhat transparent or translucent type. How to prepare Banana Chips? Typically, unripe peeled bananas are thinly sliced, immersed in a sodium or potassium metabisulphite solution, fried in hydrogenated oil at 180 to 200°C, and dusted with salt and an antioxidant. Alternatively, slices may be dried before frying and the antioxidant and salt added with the oil. Similar processes for producing plantain chips have been developed How to prepare Banana Squash? Pectinase was added to the banana pulp (1 gm / 1 mg) and soaked for 5 hours. 2 mg sugar was added to 1 kg of pulp per litre of water, 10 gm citric acid was added to the juice pulp and boiled. Then the mixture was strained. Some clarified juice, 7 mg potassium metabisulphite was added and bottled in a ratio of 1 part of squash with three parts of water. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Banana Expert System Home | About Us | Contact Us Categories Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Planting Material Cultivation Practices Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ's Furthur Links Furthur Links Organization Website Address Association for the Improvement in Production and Utilization of Banana (AIPUB) http://www.aipub.in National Horticulture Board (NHB,Gurgaon) http://www.nhb.gov.in National Horticulture Mission (NHM, New Delhi) http://www.nhm.nic.in Agricultural & Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA, New Delhi) http://www.apeda.com Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR, Bangalore) http://www.iihr.ernet.in Central Institute of Subtropical Horticulture(CISH, Lucknow) http://www.cishlko.org Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU, Coimbatore) http://www.tnau.ac.in Kerala Agricultural University (KAU, Thrissur) http://www.kau.edu Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University (ANGRAU, Hyderabad) http://www.angrau.net University of agricultulra sciences (UAS, Bangalore) http://www.uasbng.kar.nic.in University of agricultulra sciences (UAS, Dharward) http://www.uasd.edu Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswa Vidyalaya (BCKV, Kalyani) http://www.bckv.edu.in Food and Agricultural Organization of United Nations (FAO, Rome, Italy) http://www.fao.org Bioversity Internationl (INIBAP, France) http://bananas.bioversityinternational.org International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) http://bananas.bioversityinternational.org National Horticultural Board http://nhb.gov.in/bulletin_files/fruits/banana/ http://www.ikisan.com http://www.kissankerala.net/kissan/kissancontents/banana.htm http://webebananas.com http://www.dhanvantari.in http://www.keralaagriculture.gov.in http://www.kau.edu http://www.sikkimagrisnet.org http://allaboutkerala-anishpanthy.blogspot.com/2008/11/crop-husbandry-banana-cultivation.html http://www.biotechpark.org.in/db/Fruit/HTML/Banana/Banana_VarietiesCultivated.htm National committee on Plasituclture Applications in Horticulture – http://www.ncpahindia.com/banana.php Bureau of Agriculture, Philippines, AGFISHTECH PORTAL http://www.bar.gov.ph/agfishtech/crops/banana.asp Agricultural Research Council- http://www.arc.agric.za ARC-Institute for Tropical and Subtropical Crops http://www.arc.agric.za/uploads/images/0_Cultivating_Banana_-_English.pdf TNAU Agritech portal http://agritech.tnau.ac.in/horticulture/horti_fruits_banana.html National Research Centre for Banana. Thogamalai Road,Thayanur Post, Tiruchirapalli - 620 102.Tamil Nadu, India.Phone : 91-431-2618104, 2618106Fax : 91-431-2618115Email : nrcbdirector@sancharnet.in directornrcb@gmail.com try_nrcbaris@sancharnet.in National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources Dr. S.K.Sharma. Director, National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, Pusa, New Delhi - 110012. director@nbpgr.ernet.in Phone: + 91 - 11 -25843697 Fax: + 91 - 11 - 25842495 Dr.R.C.Agrawal. Pr.Scientist, I/C ARIS Cell, National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources.Pusa, New Delhi - 110012.rakesh@nbpgr.ernet.in Phone: + 91 - 11 - 25846074Fax:+ 91 - 11 - 25842495 Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (Indian Council of Agricultural Research)Rehmankhera, P.O.Kakori, Lucknow UP, INDIA, 227107Fax: 91-0522-2841025, Phone: 91-0522-2841022, 23 Email: director@cish.ernet.in Banana Research Station , Kannara, Marakkal,Thrissur -680 652 Kerala City: Thrissur State: Kerala Telephone Number: 0487-2699087 Email: brskannara@kau.in Website: University: Kerala Agricultural University Andhra PradeshAgricultural Research Station Kovvur 534 350Dist: West GodavariPhone: 08817-31507 Crop:Banana TamilnaduHorticultural Research Station, Thadiankudisai, Tamilnadu (Pepper, Mandarin orange, cinnamon, avocado, chow-chow, vanilla and hill banana) Centre Name of the University/Institute Contact Person Tel / E-mail id Centre Address Year of start Crops Arabhavi University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad, India. Dr. V. C. Kanamadi Horticulturist (08332)384502 vck_hort@yahoo.com AICRP (TF) Kithura Rani Channama College of Horticulture, Arabhavi, Belgaum Dist., Karnataka 591 310 1994 Banana, Sapota Chettalli IIHR Regional station, Chettalli, Karnataka, India. Dr.Diojode Principal Scientist & Head (08276)266635 cheschettalli@yahoo.co.in AICRP (TF) Kithura Rani Channama College of Horticulture, Arabhavi, Belgaum Dist., Karnataka 591 310 1970 Citrus Coimbatore Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India. Dr. T.N. Balamohan Professor & Head (0422)431222 Extn-269 fruits@tnau.ac.in AICRP (TF) Kithura Rani Channama College of Horticulture, Arabhavi, Belgaum Dist., Karnataka 591 310 1971 Banana, Papaya Kannara Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur, Kerala. India. Dr. Rema Menon Associate Professor (0487)2699087 brskannara@yahoo.com Banana Research Station, KAU, Marakkal, Kannara P.O, Thrissur, Kerala. 680 652 1971 Banana, Jackfruit Location and Lead functions of Research Stations Research station with location Lead functions (Research on) Agricultural Research Station, Bhavanisagar Rice, Sugarcane, Turmeric, Banana, Chillies,Tomato, Pulses, Groundnut, sunflower, sorghum, grasses, maize, oilpalm, tapioca, soyabean and jasmine. Regional Research Station, Aruppukkottai Cotton, Cholam, Cumbu, pulses Sunflower, Coriander, Chillies And horticultural crops. Horticultural Research Station, Pechiparai Fruits, Vegetables, Spices and Plantation and Agroforestry. Sugarcane Research Station, Sirugamani Sugarcane, Betelvine, Banana and Oil palm. Agricultural Research Station, Virinjipuram Groundnut, Greengram, Banana, Papaya, Cholam and Brinjal. Horticultural Research Station, Thadiyankudisai Fruits, Vegetables, Plantations and Spices. Horticultural Research Station, Yarcaud Spices, flowers, fruits and medicinal plants. Agricultural Technology Information Centres ( ATICs) Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC), Directorate of Extension Education, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), COIMBATORE - 641003, TAMILNADU Agricultural Institutes Tamilnadu Agricultural University ( TNAU) , Lawly Road Post, Coimbatore-641003, Tamil Nadu, e mail : vctnau@.kovai.tn.in, Phone : (0422)-431222 Extn. 237, FAX : (0422)-431672/435808/454186 Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency Agriculture Complex, I Floor, Chepauk, Chennai 600 005. Tamil Nadu, India. Phone: 91 44 2851 3232, 3234. Fax: 91 44 2851 3187 E-mail:-mdtanhoda@tn.gov.in Top of page Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
