Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Home HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Select your topic here... Expert System for... Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Home HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut About Us Objective : The proposed project aims development of expert system for crop and animal enterprises facilitating instant decision making process of the farmers through ICT enabled mechanism. The expert system will also be synchronized with the existing KVK e-linking system for its implementation. The specific objective of the project is to develop expert system for crop and animal enterprises for instsnt decision making. Lead Centre : Directorate of Research on Women in Agriculture, Bhuvaneshwar. Other Network Centres : Zonal Coordinating Unit, Zone VIII, Bangalore, Karnataka. Directorate of Extension Education, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. Directorate of Extension Education, TANUVASU, Chennai, Tamil Nadu. Resources Centres : Kannada - Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Malayalam - C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram. Tamil - Anna University, Chennai. Expert System Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Home HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Contact Us Sponsored by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi (2009-2012) Project Officer Dr.T.Manoharan, Professor (Agricultural Entomology) Research Team E.Vadivel (Former Project Officer, Precision Farming & e-Extension) R.Venkatachalam, ICT Co-ordinator N.Sriram, Assistant Professor (Agrl. Extn) N.Anandaraja, Assistant Professor (Agrl. Extn) I.Muthuvel, Assistant Professor (Horticulture) Research Fellows Content Development Team: Mrs. S. Mohana, JRF Mrs. N. Manoranjitham, SRF Mrs. P. Suhirdha, SRF Mrs. S.Gowsalya, SRF Software Development Team: Mr.R.S. Swamiappan, Programme Assistant (Computer) Mr. K. S.Gobinath, SRF Mr. M. Madankumar, SRF Mr. S.Karthick, SRF Ms. K. Meenambigai, SRF Ms. A. Sameembanu, SRF Mrs. S. Saranya, SRF Mrs. R. Gandhimathi, SRF Mrs. A. Seethalakshmi, SRF Mrs. P.Deepa, JRF Mrs. R. Jothi, JRF Ms. K. Kiruthika, SRF Ms. M. Saranya, JRF For further details: Contact: e-Extension Centre Technology Park 5 Directorate of Extension Education Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore - 641 003 Ph: 0422-6611383, Fax: 0422-6611521 portal@tnau.ac.in / info@tnau.ac.in Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Planting Seasons & Climate HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Planting Seasons Tamil Nadu: June - July, December – January The planting can also be taken up in other seasons wherever irrigation and drainage facilities are available. Kerala: Planting the seedlings during May, with the onset of pre-monsoon rains is ideal. Under assured irrigation, planting can be done during April also. In low-lying areas, plant the seedlings in September after the cessation of heavy rains. Karnataka: Planting the seedlings during May – June, is ideal for good cultivation. Climate Latitude and Altitude: Coconut is a tropical crop and grows well a hot climate. Tamil Nadu and Kerala - The coconut thrives well within 23 degrees of the equator (Between 200N and 200S latitudes) and an altitude of upto 600 m above Mean Sea Level. However, it is being grown upto 900 m above mean sea level in some places. Karnataka - The coconut palm thrives well within 230N and 230S latitude. Even though it is grown as far as 27° N and 27° S, those palms put on good vegetative growth but exhibit poor nut yield and hence not grown in a commercial scale beyond 23° N and 23° S. Normally an altitude of 600 m appears to be the limit for commercial coconut cultivation. Temperature: Temperature is an important weather factor that has great influence on the growth and productivity of the palm. The palm prefers less diurnal variation between day and night temperatures and does not tolerate extremes of temperature. The temperature should be from 20 ° to 32°C, a mean annual temperature of 270C is best for vigorous growth and good yield. The yield reduces when mean temperature falls below 210C. High temperature may cause the developing inflorescences to dry up, and limit production during those months in the year. Rainfall: A total of 1000 mm is sufficient, if it is evenly distributed throughout the year. However, rainfall upto 3000 mm is also ideal for coconut cultivation if the distribution varies to certain extent and drainage of the soil is good. (Kerala: A well distributed rainfall of 1300 – 2300 mm per annum is preferred). Prolonged dry spell requires irrigation. Irrigation during summer months has positive correlation on the nut yield. Staggered rainfall during different periods of the year is more important than the total rainfall during any particular period. The rainfall received during any particular period is relevant to the texture and depth of the soil type. A water table that is too high and remains stagnant over and long period is definitely harmful to the palm. Even in dry interior area with a low annual rainfall of 500 to 800 mm, it is possible to grow coconut where sub-soil moisture is adequate at the depression of rolling lands and near valleys or adjacent to tanks. Humidity and Wind: The optimum relative humidity is 80 – 85 per cent (Karnataka – the monthly means of relative humidity should not fall below 60%). High relative humidity increases the incidence of pest and disease and reduces nutrient uptake. In tall palms, wind plays an important part in the dispersal of pollen and the fertilization of flowers; increase of water, leading to its greater absorption. Windy atmosphere increases transpiration rates and helps in uptake of nutrients from soil. The coconut palm can tolerate high winds but not cyclones. Cyclones will uproot the palms or twist the crowns. Conditions near the sea are ideal but palms come up well even hundreds of kilometer as in the inland away from the sea. The palms near sea benefit from less diurnal fluctuation in the temperature and high relative humidity. Moisture availability is not restricted near the sea. Sunshine: The palm requires plenty of sunlight and does not grow well under shade or in cloudy conditions. Cloudiness arrests the rate of transpiration. Coconut is grown in different soil types such as laterite, coastal sandy, alluvial, and also in reclaimed soils of the marshy lowlands. It tolerates salinity and a wide range of pH (from 5.0-8.0). Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Coconut Varieties HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Coconut Botany & Varieties Varieties The cultural practices have to be adopted to suit the varying climatic and soil conditions. Varieties: There are only two distinct varieties of coconut, the tall and the dwarf. The tall cultivars that are extensively grown are the West Coast Tall and East Coast Tall. The dwarf variety is shorter in stature and its life span is short as compared to the tall. (Click the respective variety to navigate this page) Tall Varieties Dwarf Varieties Hybrid Varieties Tall Varieties Characteristics: Long lived palm living generally to an age of about 80 to 90 years Palms thrive well under different soil conditions varying from littoral sands to red loams and laterites. Palms grow well up to an altitude of 3,000 ft. above the sea level. It is fairly resistant to diseases and pests. The tree attains a height of about 15m to 18m or more It begins to bear in about 8 to 10 years after planting The nut is medium to big in size varying in shape from spheroid to linear-oblong and with colors varying from green, yellow and orange to shades of brown. About 6,000 nuts yield a ton of copra. List of Tall Varieties: (Click the respective tall variety to view its details) West coast tall East coast tall Chandrakalpa or Lakshadweep ordinary (LCT) Philippines Ordinary (Kerachandra) VPM – 3 (Andaman Ordinary) Aliyar Nagar 1 Tiptur Tall Kera sagara (Seychelles) Suitable varieties for Tamil Nadu: West Coast Tall, Chandrakalpa or Lakshadweep ordinary (LCT), VPM – 3 (Andaman Ordinary), East coast tall ,Aliyar Nagar 1, Kera Chandra (Philippines Ordinary) Suitable Varieties for Kerala: West coast tall, Chandrakalpa or Lakshadweep ordinary (LCT), Philippines Ordinary (Kerachandra), VPM – 3 (Andaman Ordinary), Kera Sagara (Seychelles) Suitable varieties for Karnataka: West Coast Tall, Tiptur Tall (TPT), Chandrakalpa or Lakshadweep ordinary (LCT), VPM – 3 (Andaman Ordinary), Kera Chandra (Philippines Ordinary) Top of page Dwarf Varieties Characteristics: The dwarf coconut is small in stature (5-7 m) and commences bearing earlier than the tall variety Dwarf coconut palms flower as early as the third year after planting and come to regular bearing in the ninth year. The average life span is 40-50 years. Dwarf or short variety which producing green, orange and yellow nuts. Susceptible to drought. Nuts are small in size and ovoid or round in shape Nut weighs about 3 oz (85 gm) with 65 per cent oil content. List of Dwarf Varieties: (Click the respective tall variety to view its details) Chowghat Orange Dwarf (COD) Chowghat Green Dwarf (CGD) Suitable varieties for Tamil Nadu: Chowghat Orange Dwarf (COD), Chowghat Green Dwarf (CGD) Suitable Varieties for Kerala: Chowghat Orange Dwarf (COD), Chowghat Green Dwarf (CGD) Suitable varieties for Karnataka: Chowghat Orange Dwarf (COD) Top of page Hybrid Varieties Hybrids are the intervarietal crosses of two morphological forms of coconut. They show earliness in flowering and give increased yield, higher quantity and better quality of copra and oil when compared to the parents. When the tall is used as female they are called T*D hybrid while the reciprocal is known as D*T hybrid. Hybrids perform well under good management conditions including nutrient management and irrigation. Characteristics: Hybrids are the intervarietal crosses between the two morphological forms of coconut. They exhibit earliness in flowering, increased nut yield, higher copra production and give better quality copra and oil as compared to the parents. Hybrids are produced in two ways, with tall as female parent and dwarf as male parent (Tall x Dwarf) or dwarf as female parent and tall as male parent (Dwarf x Tall). Besides intervarietal hybrids like Tall x Tall and Dwarf x Dwarf are also produced. List of Hybrid Varieties: (Click the respective tall variety to view its details) Kerasankara (WCT x COD) Chandrasankara (COD x WCT) Chandralaksha (LCT x COD) Keraganga (WCT x GBGD) Lakshaganga (LCT x GBGD) Anandaganga (ADOT x GBGD) Kerasree (WCT x MYD) Kerasoubhagya (WCT x SSAT) VHC 1 (ECT x MGD) VHC 2 (ECT x MYD) VHC 3 (ECT x MOD) Suitable varieties for Tamil Nadu: Kerasankara (WCT x COD), Chandrasankara (COD x WCT), Kerasoubhagya (WCT x SSAT), VHC 1(ECT x MGD), VHC 2(ECT x MYD), VHC 3(ECT x MOD) Suitable Varieties for Kerala: Kerasankara(WCT x COD), Chandrasankara (COD x WCT), Chandralaksha(LCT x COD), Keraganga (WCT x GBGD), Lakshaganga (LCT x GBGD), Anandaganga(ADOT x GBGD), Kerasree (WCT x MYD), Kerasoubhagya (WCT x SSAT) Suitable varieties for Karnataka: Kerasankara (WCT x COD), Chandrasankara (COD x WCT), Chandralaksha (LCT x COD), Kerasoubhagya (WCT x SSAT) Top of page Botany BOTANICAL CLASSIFICATION Division : Phanerogams Sub-Division : Angiosperms Class : Monocotyledons Series : Calycieae Order : Arecales Family : Arecaceae Genus : Cocos Species : nucifera (L) Varieties : (a) Cocos nucifera L.Var.typica (Tall) (b) Cocos nucifera L.Var nana (Dwarf) One of the most useful plants is the coconut palm, Cocos nucifera, which is grown around the world in lowland tropical and subtropical habitats. From this species we can get many natural products, including foods, drinks, fibers, building materials, and chemicals.. The plant is a feather palm, which means that its leaves are pinnately compound (like a feather); these leaves are frequently used in thatching. The long trunk of the tree is used for building supports. Coconut palms are an excellent source of food for native peoples in the tropics. Fruits are rich in calories and essential vitamins. This fiber is called the coir and is used for making mats and rope. The shell is used for containers and is widely employed by artisans to make ornaments and decorations. The solid endosperm, copra, is harvested, dried, and then pressed to release the oil, widely used for chief ingredients of shampoo and hair conditioners. The Roots The palm has adventitious roots continually produced from the base of the trunk, which is the swollen part or what is termed 'bole', in tall types and in some dwarf hybrids. It has no taproot or root hairs but has lots of primary roots which bear large quantities of rootlets. The main roots grow out somewhat horizontally from the bole and are mostly found within the topsoil. The main branches grow deeper and may extend laterally to as much as 10 m. The roots, having no cambium, are noticeably uniform - the main roots reaching a maximum diameter of about 1 cm. The root tip is the actively growing region and behind it is the absorbing area whose epidermis is a single layer of thin-walled cells that gradually thicken and become impervious with age. In old roots, the epidermis disintegrates and exposes the hard hypodermis which is generally red. The root centre has a stele surrounded by a single-celled pericycle sheath from which rootlets and aerenchymatous (respiratory exchange) protuberances or pneumatophores arise. The respiratory exchange occurs more abundantly nearer the soil surface to allow easy diffusion of root. STEM The stem is called as Trunk It is unbranched, erect, stout and cylindrical The leaf base encircles the stem as they have scars with pit mark on the trunk The scars are helpful in determining the age of the tree. Based on these 12 to 14 scars, the age can be computed for a year First few years there is increased growth in the thickness of the stem The girth remains uniform for a number of years and finally tapers in growth when the tree grows very old The trunk carries a big crown with large sized leaves and bunches of fruits LEAF The leaves are crowded together at the top of the trunk in the form of a crown The young leaf appears in the centre of the crown as a pointed structure having all the leaves closely held together It takes five months for the complete development of a leaf from the time of initiation to its complete emergence The crown has 15 open leaves, 15 youngee leaves in different stages of development The leaf consists of many leaflets arranged obliquely on the mid-rib or rachis Each leaflet is long, linear, has a strong mid-rib with narrow lamina and parallel venation The petiole is flat, very thick, broad and sheather with fibre at the base and encircles the stem INFLORESCENCE It takes 34 months for the inflorescence to develop from the initiation to the opening of the spathe The spadix is stout and erect, enclosed by the tough spathe which splits when infloresecence is mature The axis of the inflorescence is branched, with the branches bearing sessile flowers, both staminate and pistillate • The palm is monoceious with male and female flowers on the same plant Staminate flowers are small, numerous and are arranged closely on the secondary branches of the inflorescence They have six perinathe lobes in two whorls.and the outer perinath are small, the inner perinath is bigger Stamens are six and plenty of pollen is produced. An abortive psitillate or rudimentary ovary is present in the staminate flower. The pollen grains are spherical in shape and are smooth Pistillate flowers are at about the base of the branches substened by one or two staminate flowers They are small spherical structure known as ‘button’ Six perinath lobes in two whorls arranged imbricate and more or less of the same size and shape The perinath is rounded, concave and whitish, the stigma is found at the base of the ovary FRUIT Once pollination and fertilization occur, fruits set and develop to maturity in about 12 months, or less than 1 year for some dwarf cultivars. A count of bunch and fruit set can give a reasonable estimate of yield. Fruit is drupe, having three regions and one seeded .On the outside is the husk, The fruit is developed from a tricarpellary ovary The outer layers of pericarp are fibrous,called as husk which is initially green but turns brown after being picked and dried. • The endocarp is very hard and forms the shell Within the endocarp, soft white endosperm enclosing inside a big cavity filled with extra-cellular fluid called as "coconut milk." The seed coat, which is thin, and then the white flesh or copra .Both the copra and the milk are the endosperm of this seed. Initially the milk is fairly sweet and the copra is thin, but as the seed matures, the liquid is converted into solid endosperm rich in oils (triglycerides). The endosperm or the kernel has also contains sucrose, fructose, galactose, glucose and raffinose The moisture content in the kernel diminishes as the maximum quantity of oil is formed when the nuts are 9-10 months old Liquid endosperm contains large quantities of cytokine hormone which is useful to grow plants in test tubes from single cells and this develops into embryos. Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Coconut Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Management HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Coconut Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Management The need for collecting seed materials from high yielding coconut palms is highly essential in a perennial crop like coconut. The following points may be remembered. (Click the respective topic to navigate this page) Selection of Seed Gardens Mother Palm Selection Selection of Seed Nuts Storage of Seed Nuts Nursery Management Selection of Seed Gardens Selction of Garden Gardens should have palms with a high proportion of heavy bearers but it should be kept in mind that this must not be from very favourable conditions. Garden should be free from the incidence of diseases and not prone to severe attacks of pests. Trees growing closer to households, cattle shed, compost pits and other favorable conditions should be avoided. Certain centres are well known for good quality seed nuts and seedlings, e.g, in Kerala, Kuttiadi in Kozhikode and Chavakkad in Thrissur districts. Top of page Mother Palm Selection For production of quality planting materials it is essential to have good quality mother palms of the desired varieties. In the absence of commercially viable vegetative propagation techniques only seed propagation is possible. Therefore mother palm selection is a key factor in planting material production of coconut. The important features of superior mother palms are: Ideal Mother Palm Ideal Seed Nut Click here for more photos... Regular bearer - A good regular bearing mother palm produces on an average one leaf and an inflorescence in its axil every month. So, there will be twelve bunches of varying stages of maturity at any one time with strong bunch stalks. Avoid trees producing habitually barren nuts. Straight stout trunk with even growth and closely spaced leaf scars. Spherical or semi spherical crown, High rate of leaf (more than 30 fully opened leaves) and spathe production (12 inflorescences) Short and stout petiole and wide leaf base firmly attached to the stem, Short and stout inflorescence stalk with bunches, preferably resting on the leaf petioles of the lower whorl and more number of female flowers (25 or more) The age of the palm chosen be middle age i.e., from 25 to 40 years. Even trees with 15 years age can be selected, if it is high yielding and has stabilized yield.(eg, Chowghat dwarf ) Avoid palms that are above 60 years. High yielding mother palms giving not less than 100 nuts/palm/annum under irrigated condition (70-80 nuts/annum under rainfed conditions) should be chosen for collecting seednuts Husked nuts should weigh not less than 600 g. Mean copra content of 150 g per nut or more Free from pest and diseases. Avoid palms which... (i) Palms have long, thin and pendulous inflorescence stalks (ii) Palms produce long, narrow, small sized or barren nuts (iii) Palms showing alternate bearing tendency also should be avoided. (iv) Palms show shedding of immature nuts in large numbers and (v) Palms are grown under favourable environmental conditions eg. Trees near manure pits. Strategy for root wilt diseased tracts: In the root wilt disease prevalent tracts, in the midst of heavily diseased palms, high yielding disease free West Coast Tall (WCT), Chowghat green dwarf (CGD) and Chowghat Orange Dwarf (COD) palms are found. Such palms can be selected as mother palms and open pollinated nuts of those palms can be used for large scale planting material production. Seedlings produced from these palms are expected to be high yielding and disease free. Top of page Selection of Seed Nuts Harvest seednuts during the months of February - August in Tamil Nadu, December to May in Kerala to get maximum germination and good quality seedlings. Generally seed nuts are harvested during February-May and planted in June in the west coast region, whereas sowing is done in October-November in East Coast region. Nut should not be damaged while harvesting. Discard nuts having irregular shape and size. Tall varieties are sown one or two months after collection whereas dwarfs should be sown immediately after harvest (within 10 to 15 days). Harvested Nuts Selected Healthy Nuts Click here for more photos... Maturity of Seed nut: The mature nuts are harvested when atleast one nut in the oldest bunch starts becoming dry. In Talls, it takes 11-12 months to become a matured seed nut whereas in dwarfs, nuts will mature in 10-11 months after emergence of the inflorescence. In general dwarf palms are to be harvested once in four weeks and tall palms are to be harvested once in six to eight weeks. They produce a resonant and ringing sound when hit with the harvesting knife or tapped by finger indicating that the husk is dry. Immature nuts will produce a dull sound. Harvest the bunches intended for seednut by lowering them to the ground using a rope to avoid injury to seednuts when palms are tall and ground is hard. The seednuts should be medium sized, round or oblong in shape. Top of page Storage of Seed Nuts Nuts are Covered with Coconut Leaves Stored in Room Condition Click here for more photos... To get more quality seedlings, the seednuts of tall and hybrid are to be air cured for one month followed by sand curing for two months. For dwarf varieties, the air curing should be lesser than one month followed by sand curing for two months. In general seed nuts of tall variety are stored upto two months after harvest and dwarfs are sown within 15 days. For storing, arrange the seed nuts with the stalk-end up over an 8 cm layer of sand in a shed and cover with sand to prevent drying of nut water. Up to five layers of nuts can be arranged one over the other. The nuts can also be stored in plots, provided the soil is sandy and the ground is sufficiently shaded. In the case of nuts harvested in May, heap them in partial shade, till husk is well dried and then sow them in the nursery. Nuts without splashing sound indicate that the nut water has become dry and hence they should not be used for sowing. Top of page Nursery Management Soil: Select nursery area in a well drained plot with friable, sandy loam/loam soils are best suited for coconut nursery due to the relative ease in removing the seedlings from the nursery. In Laterite soils, sand has to be applied to the nursery beds. Heavy clayey soils and waterlogged soils are to be avoided. The ideal soil pH ranges from 5.5 to 7.0 and the seedlings are tolerant to a pH range from4.5 to 8.5. Under irrigation, coconut seedlings tolerate saline and alkaline soils. Nursery Structures: Nursery can be raised in the interspaces of the coconut plantation. The nursery area is to be provided with shade using 50-75% shade net if the nursery area is an open space. About 120 m2 areas required to sow 1000 nuts in flat or raised beds whereas larger area of 200 m2 would be required to maintain 1000 poly bag coconut seedlings. Nursery area between coconut Nursery in shaded condition Click here for more photos... Time of sowing: Sowing of seed nuts with commencement of the rainy season will reduce the frequency of irrigation required for getting good germination. Generally seed nuts are harvested during April May and planted in June in the west coast region, whereas sowing is done in October-November in East Coast region. However seed nuts can be sown throughout the year under favourable climatic conditions and good irrigation facilities. Nursery bed preparation: Prepare beds of 1- 1.5 m width and of convenient length with 75 cm space between beds. In areas where drainage is poor, prepare raised beds (10-20 cm height). The seed beds should be drenched with Chlorpyriphos @0.05% before sowing of seed nuts, in areas having termite problem. To prevent bud rot in seedlings, the nursery can be drenched with 1% Bordeaux mixture, in bud rot endemic areas. Nursery Bed Nursery Preparation Click here for more photos... (i). Method of planting seed nuts Nursery Bed - Top portion visible Spacing size - 30 to 30 cm Click here for more photos... Before planting, examine seed nuts and discard those without nut water and rotten kernels. Some seed nuts, even though they are without nut water, may germinate. Such seed nuts may be soaked in water for 24-36 hours prior to sowing. Plant seed nuts in beds, at a spacing of 30 x 30 cm, either horizontally or vertically in deep trenches with 20-25 cm depth. The nuts may be planted either horizontally with the widest of the segments at the top or vertically with stalk-end up. The seedlings raised by following vertical planting suffer more from drought and are less robust than those from flat or horizontal method and seedlings obtained by this method are less likely to be damaged at transplanting because the attachment between shoot and nut is much better protected by the husk. With horizontal planting rate of germination and subsequent growth of seedlings will be faster compared to vertical planning. Notching hastens the germination of vertically planted nuts. Cover with soil so that top portion of husk alone is visible as it helps to prevent possible infection of the collar region of the emerging seedlings. Five rows of nuts may be planted in each bed accommodating 50 nuts per row. (ii). Management of Nursery Irrigation Management: Water Source - A perennial source of water is required for maintenance of coconut palms and irrigation is essential for obtaining good coconut yield. Sprinkler / Micro Jet Sprinkler / Hose Iirrigation Systems are well suited for irrigating coconut nurseries. After sowing the seed nuts should be irrigated thoroughly to saturation levels. The seed beds should be irrigated regularly to ensure that the soil is moist. During summer months, the beds may be irrigated on alternate days. About 10 mm of water should be applied for every irrigation. Irrigation Channel Irrigation after Planting Click here for more photos... Mulching: The seed beds can be covered with suitable mulch after the cessation of monsoon rain. Coconut leaves, straw or green leaves are used. This is done to conserve moisture and to check weed growth. Provide protective fencing to the nursery if it is located in open area. Keep the nursery beds free of weeds by periodic weeding. Provide shade to the nursery by raising Sesbania or Leucaena on the sides of beds. Weeding: The nursery should be kept free of weeds to allow good growth of the seedlings. Germination of seedlings: Seed nuts of tall varieties begin germination within 60-130 days after sowing and seed nuts of dwarf varieties usually germinate 30-95 days after sowing. Generally germination is recorded till the fifth month of sowing and a good seed lot will have 80-90% germination. Seed nuts that do not germinate within 5 months can be removed from the nursery and used for production of copra. Fertilizer application: Chemical fertilizers need not be applied to the seedlings in the nursery since the seedlings are usually nourished by the endosperm. Moreover application of chemical fertilizers can mask the true genetic potential of seedlings. Poly bag seedling production (Source: Coconut Cultivation Practices, CPCRI, 2007) Poly bag nursery can be adopted for Producing more vigorous seedling with better root system. Better establishment and early bearing Reduced transplanting shock as no root damage easier weeding, watering and elimination of unwanted seedlings Inorder to produce poly bag seedlings, the seed nuts are initially sown very closely and allowed to germinate in a pre nursery bed till the sprouts are 8-10 cm long. The germinated seedlings are picked out from the nursery once 80% of the nuts have germinated or 5 months from sowing, whichever is earlier. Germinated seeds are transplanted in poly bags (500 gauge thickness) of size 60*45 cm for bigger nuts and 45 *45 cm for smaller nuts. Polybags of the first size require 13-16 kg of top soil to fill two thirds of the bag. The bottom of the bag is provided with 8-10 holes for draining the excess water. The germinated nuts are placed in half filled poly bags with the sprout positioned upwards in the centre of the bag and sufficient potting mixture is added to fill two-third portion and the sides slightly pressed to keep the nut firm. The commonly used potting media are top soil mixed with sand in 3:1 ratio or 3:1:1 ratio of top soil, sand and FYM/vermicompost. Red earth, sand and FYM/vermicompost in 1:1:1 ratio can also be used. Fertilizers can also be applied in poly bags@ 20g ammonium sulphate and 25 g Muriate of potash per bag after 2 months of germination and 45g ammonium sulphate and 45 g Muriate of potash per bag after 4 months of germination. Seedlings should be irrigated after fertilization. The disadvantages include difficulty for transportation and higher cost of seedling production. Spray the seedlings with 1% Bordeaux or any other Copper Fungicides to prevent pest and disease attack. (iii). Selection of seedlings Remove seed nuts, which do not germinate within 6 months after sowing as well as those with dead sprouts. Select only good quality seedlings (9-12 months old) by a rigorous selection based on the following characteristics. Ideal Seedling Stage-wise growth of seedling Click here for more photos... 1. Early germination, rapid growth and seedling vigour. 2. Six to eight leaves for 10-12 month old seedlings and at least four leaves for 9 month old seedlings. 3. Collar girth of 10-12 cm. 4. Early splitting of leaves is a good indicator of the rapid development and early bearing. The colour of the petiole and seedling vigour can be used as a selection criterion for dwarfs and hybrids. The dwarfs should exhibit the petiole colour of the mother palm. Hybrids usually exhibit hybrid vigour at the seedling stage itself. Seedlings of dwarf varieties can be easily identified by their early germination, short height, short and sturdy leaves with short and narrow leaflets. Seedlings of tall varieties usually grow tall with long leaves and long and broad leaflets. Note: The recovery of quality seedlings will be about 60-65%. Since early germination is one of the criteria for the selection of seedlings, the storing and sowing of seed nuts should be in lots rather than in a staggered manner. For planting in water logged areas, 11/2 to 2 year old seedlings are preferred. Eliminate the seedlings which are deformed or having stunted growth. (iv). Important diseases / pests and their management There are no serious pests and diseases in coconut nurseries. However, bud rot affected seedlings are to be avoided for planting. Bud Rot: The fungus, Phytophthora palmivora, causes this disease. The symptoms are yellowing and withering of the spindle leaf followed by drying and the death of the seedlings. The spindle of the affected seedlings will easily come out with a gentle pull and rotting can be seen in the lower end of the detached leaf. The affected portion emits a foul smell. Though it is not a major problem in coconut nurseries, the affected seedlings are to be removed and the surrounding seedlings treated with 1% Bordeaux mixture. Seed nuts dip with Copper oxychloride 0.25%. But Rot Disease Scale Insect (Asipidiotus destructor): The characteristic symptom is yellowing of leaves and presence of scale insect underneath the leaves. Though the insect does not pose serious threat to the seedlings, this can be controlled by drenching the nursery with Dimethoate @ 0.05% to ensure good quality and healthy foliage of seedlings. Scale Insect Termite: Drying of the sprouts and leaves are the symptoms of termite damage in the nursery. If termite is noticed, remove soil in the affected area up to a depth of about 15 cm and dust soil and nuts with carbaryl or chlorpyrifos (chlordane 5% dust @ 120 kg/ha – CPCRI) or drench the nursery with Chlorpyriphos @ 0.05%will control the termites. Repeat if attack persists. Periodically spray the plants with 1% Bordeaux mixture or any other copper fungicide to prevent fungal infection. White Grub (Leucopholis coneophora): This occurs mainly in sandy soils. The characteristic symptom is yellowing of leaves followed by drying of leaves and death of the seedlings due to severe root damage. This can be controlled by application of Phorate 10g @15g/ seedling. White Grub (v). Removal and transporting of seedlings Video: Removal of seedlings Remove seedlings from the nursery by lifting with spade and cutting the roots. Never allow lifting the seedlings from the soil by pulling the leaves or stem Plant seedlings as early as possible after removal from nursery. The seedlings can be kept for about four weeks under careful storage after removal from the nursery. In such cases, keep the seedlings in shade and do not expose to sun. Irrigate them to keep them moist. Seedlings can be compactly packed and transported. For very long distance transportation, special care should be taken to pack the seedlings in moss/coir pith/ other moisture retaining material. Poly bag seedlings can be transported as such and planted directly in the field after cutting and removing the base of the poly bag to facilitate growth of roots. Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut ::Main Field HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Coconut Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Cultivation Practices consists of the following creteria. (Click the respective creteria to navigate this page) Soil Preparation of Land Field Layout Spacing Planting Care of Young Palms Cropping System Weed Management Soil Red sandy loam, laterite and alluvial soils are suitable. Select sites with deep (not less than 1.5 m depth) well drained soil heavy, imperfectly drained soil is unsuitable. Avoid shallow soils with underlying hard rock, low-lying areas subject to water stagnation and heavy clayey soils. Soil with a minimum depth of 1.2 m and fairly good water holding capacity is preferred for coconut cultivation. However, in lands, reclaimed by heaping alternate layers of sand and clay, coconut thrives well. Proper supply of moisture either through well distributed rainfall or irrigation and sufficient drainage are essential for coconut. Coconut can be grown in soil with pH of 5.2 – 8.6. Top of page Preparation of Land The nature of preparation of land before planting depends upon topography of land, soil type and other environmental factors. The area should be cleaned and planting holes marked out at appropriate places. If the land is slopy, soil conservation methods should be adopted. If the groundwater level is high planting may be taken up in the mounds. On slopes and in areas of undulating terrain, prepare the land by contour terracing or bunding. In low-lying areas and rice fields, form mounds to a height of at least 1 m above water level. In reclaimed kayal areas, planting can be done on the field bunds. Top of page Field Layout Although several systems of planting are followed, selection of a suitable system depending on soil, climate, plant type etc. Adoption of improper system results in over lapping of plant parts, competition for water, light, nutrient and unequal distribution of water etc., ultimately results I poor performance. The systems of layout are Square system, Rectangular system, Triangular system, Hedge system and Contour system. These are all systems are followed in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka state. Formulate for calculating number of plants per unit area in different systems of layout. Square layout = S/L2 S = Unit surface; L = Side of the Square pattern Rectangular Layout = S/L1 x L2 Where S= Unit Surface; L1= Shorter side of the rectangle; L2= Longer side of the rectangle Triangular Layout = S/d2 x 0.866 S = Unit surface D = length of the triangle side Hedge System = N x 100,000,000/Y (x +z) N = Number of lines in a hedge (double hedge = 2) Y = Distance between plants in a line X = Distance between hedges Z = Distance between lines Note: Spacing in cm. Top of page Spacing (i). Tamil Nadu: Adopt a spacing of 25' x 25' (7.5 x 7.5 m) with 175 plants/ha is ideal for tall varieties and a spacing of 8.5 x 8.5 m is optimum for hybrids. A spacing of 6.5 x 6.5 m is optimum for dwarf variety. For planting in field border as a single row, adopt 20' spacing between plants. Particulars Spacing Tall varieties 7.5 x 7.5 m (25’ x 25’) Dwarf varieties 6.5 x 6.5 m (20’ x 20’) Hybrids 8.5 x 8.5 m (26’ x 26’) (ii). Kerala: Planting system Spacing Approximate number of plants/ha Triangular 7.6 m 198 Square 7.6 to 9 m (7.6x7.6m, 8x8m, 9x9 m) 170-120 Single hedge 5 m in the rows 9 m between the rows or 6.5m in rows - 9m between rows* 220 Double hedge 5 x 5 m in rows 9 m between pairs of rows or 6.5 to 6.5m in rows - 9m between pairs of rows* 280 *CDB recommendation In the hedge system of planting, the rows should be aligned in north-south direction and the seedlings planted as in the triangular system. (iii). Karnataka: No. of Seedlings Spacing Plants/ha Tall varieties (Southern region & Hilly region) Tall varieties (Coastal region) 9 x 9 m 8.2 x 8.2 m 125 149 Dwarf and Hybrids (Southern dry region & Hilly region) Dwarf and Hybrids (Coastal region) 7.5 x 7.5 m 7 x 7 m 178 204 Top of page Planting Tamil Nadu: Dig pit size of 3' x 3' x 3'. Fill the pit to a height of two feet (60 cm) with FYM, red earth and sand mixed in equal proportions. At the center of the pit, remove the soil mixture and plant the seedling after removing all the roots. Press the soil well around the seedling and provide the seedling with shade by using plaited coconut leaves or palmyrah leaves. Keep the pits free from weeds. Remove soil covering the collar region. As the seedlings grow and form stem, fill up the pits gradually by cutting the sides. Kerala: The size of pits for planting would depend upon soil types and water table. In loamy soils with low water table, pit size of 1 x 1 x 1 m is recommended. In laterite soils with underlying rock, take larger pits of size 1.2 x 1.2 x 1.2 m. In sandy soils, the size of pits may be 0.75x 0.75 x 0.75 m. The pits may be filled up with topsoil and powdered cow dung / compost to a height 60 cm below the ground level. Press the soil well so as to avoid water stagnation .In low lying lands, take shallow pits and as the plant grows, raise the ground level by adding silt and sand so as to cover the entire bole of the palm. However, when the water table is high, planting at the surface or even on mounds may be necessary. Burial of two layers of husks in the floor of the pits will be useful for moisture conservation. The husk is to be buried in layers with concave surface facing upwards. After arranging each layer, sprinkle carbaryl 10% dust on the husk to prevent colonization by termites. Note: In lateritic areas, common salt at the rate of 2 kg per pit may be applied on the floor of the pit to improve soil conditions. Common salt is to be applied about six months prior to planting. If there is chance for white-ant attacks apply Sevidol 8 G (5gm.) inside the small pit before planting. Karnataka: Prepare the land by ploughing and harrowing. Pits of 1 m cube (3.3 ft) with proper spacing according to the variety are opened well in advanced and exposed for weathering. Fill the pits with green leaves, compost / FYM and top soil. Plant seedlings in center of the pit and press the soil firmly around the plant and provide support. Whenever it is necessary provide shade during summer. While planting, deep palcing of nut upto 45 cm is preferred. Time of Planting: Planting the seedlings during May, with the onset of pre-monsoon rains is ideal. Under assured irrigation, planting can be done during April also. In low- lying areas, plant the seedlings in September after the cessation of heavy rains. Top of page Care of Young Palms For the first two years from planting, irrigate @ 45 litres of water per seedling, once in 4 days, during dry summer months. Provide adequate shade to the transplanted seedlings. Also provide staking so that winds may not uproot the young seedlings. Provision of proper drainage is also equally important in areas subject to water logging. If planting is taken up in littoral and soil, application of 0.15 m3 of red earth is recommended. The pits should be cleared of weeds periodically. Soil washed down by the rains and covering the collar of the seedlings should also be removed. The pits should be widened every year before the application of manure. The pits should be gradually filled as the seedlings grow. The palms should be frequently examined for any insect or fungal attack and necessary remedial measures should be taken up promptly. Top of page Cropping System Introduction Coconut seedlings are planted 7.5 m to 9.0 m apart and hence the wider interspace can offer opportunities for raising other crops, either annuals as intercrop or perennials as mixed crop as a source of additional income to the growers. While such inter or mixed-cropping system is adopted, about 2 m all round the basin of the palm should be left un-cropped and kept free from weeds for regular manuring and cultural operations to the main crop. Diversified multi-species cropping system will generate enough cash, food, fruit, fodder, fuel etc. when annual or seasonal crops are grown in the interspaces of coconut palms, it is designated as inter-cropping and when perennials are grown, it is called mixed-cropping. When a combination of intercrops and mixed crops are raised together, it is termed as multi-storeyed cropping. Depending on the age of the palm and canopy coverage of the ground, suitable crop combination could be selected. Inter-Cropping in Coconut Gardens: Tamil Nadu: Inter/mixed crops may be selected based on the climatic requirement of the inter/mixed crop, irrigation facilities and soil type. The canopy size, age and spacing of the coconut are also to be considered. Market suitability should be taken into consideration before selecting an intercrop. A. Below 7 years of age: Any suitable annual crop for particular soil type and climatic condition may be raised as intercrops upto 5 years after planting depending upon the canopy coverage. Groundnut, sesame, sunflower, tapioca, turmeric and banana can be grown. Avoid crops like paddy and sugarcane etc. B. 7 – 20 years of age: Green manure crops and fodder crops (Napier grass and guinea grass) alone can be grown. C. Above 20 years of age (20 years of age has to be adjusted based on the sunlight transmission of above 50% inside the canopy): The following crops can be grown depending on the soil and climatic suitability. (i) Annuals: Groundnut, bhendi, turmeric, tapioca, sweet potato, sirukizhangu, elephant foot yam, ginger, pineapple (ii) Biennials: Banana varieties like Poovan and Monthan are suitable. (iii) Perennials: Cocoa*, pepper* (Panniyur 1 or Panniyur 2 or Panniyur 5 or Karimunda), nutmeg* and vanilla* *Suitable areas in Pollachi tract of western region and Kanyakumari district. For vanilla, use disease free planting material and maintain high vigilance to maintain a disease free crop. In all cases, separate application of adequate fertilizers and manures to the individual crop is essential. Karnataka Intercrops are sown/planted in rainfed coconut garden taking advantage of the summer showers in May or during the onset of monsoon in June. When the intercrops are grown both the main crop and subsidiary intercrops should receive the recommended management practices for obtaining satisfactory yields without affecting the main coconut crop. The common annual intercrops that could be grown during the pre-bearing or early stage of growth of the palms are: dry land paddy, millets, groundnut, cowpea, chillies, wheat, potato, tuber crops and rhizomatous crops. In older plantations, mostly root and stem tuber crops such as elephant foot yam, cassava, colocasia, greater and lesser yams, sweet potato, ginger and turmeric are grown. Among these elephant foot yam is found to be the best and most profitable among the intercrops followed by ginger, cassava, turmeric, French bean fodder grass (Hybrid Napier, Guinea grass and Styloesanthes gracilis), sunflower, cowpea and ragi under rainfed conditions. Kerala Intercropping and Mixed Cropping: Schedules for inter/mixed cropping may be drawn up based on the canopy size, age and spacing of palms. In general, palms in the age group of 8-25 years are not suitable for inter and mixed cropping. However, cereals and tapioca are recommended as intercrops in young coconut plantation up to 3-4 years. Since ginger and turmeric are shade tolerant crops with shallow roots, they can be intercropped in coconut garden even in the age group of 15-25 years. It ensures better land utilization, solar energy harvesting, efficient water use, utilization of soil nutrient resources, more returns and an insurance against crop failure. Under conditions of wider spacing i.e. beyond 7.6 m, intercropping is possible irrespective of the age of the palms. The following crops are recommended as intercrops. Cereals: Rice, maize Legumes and pulses: Groundnut, horse gram, cowpea Tubers: Tapioca, sweet potato, yams, colocasia Spices and condiments: Ginger, turmeric, chilly, pepper, nutmeg, cinnamon, clove Fruit plants: Banana, pineapple, papaya. (Banana variety Palayankodan is recommended in the reclaimed soils of Kuttanad. Three suckers per clump have to be retained). Beverage crop: Cocoa Fodder grasses: Hybrid Napier, guinea grass –KAU In all cases, separate application of adequate fertilizes and manures to the individual crop is essential. Mixed Farming by raising fodder grasses such as Hybrid Napier or Guinea grass along with leguminous fodder crops such as Stylosanthes has been found to be profitable. Raising the above crops in one ha of coconut garden can support three to four diary animals. The animals supply large quantities of cattle manure which when applied to the soil will improve its fertility status. This sort of mixed farming will improve the yield of the palm. Multi-Storeyed Cropping in Coconut The main purpose of multi-storeyed cropping is for greater utilization of the solar energy, soil moisture and nutrient resources from various depths and also air space. The rooting pattern of crop combinations should also be kept in view while selecting the individual species. In intensive study of multi-storeyed crop combinations has brought out a four-crop architecture i.e., coconut, pepper, cocoa and pineapple under irrigation. The feasibility and success of this multi-storeyed architecture depends on the crown habit of coconut spaced at 7.5 to 8.0 m apart, which form 'top floor, pepper vine trained up to 8.0m on the coconut palm trunk form the 'second floor', cocoa branch spread confined to a height of up to 3.5 m forms the 'first floor' and pineapple forms the 'ground floor', till the canopy of cocoa completely covers the interspace. The root systems of these crops were found mutually exclusive and did not overlap to any appreciable extent. The solar energy incident on the area is intercepted up to the 'ground floor'. Cocoa being a shade loving crops can grow well under coconut and the pineapple grows well under partial shade. Micro-climate like evaporation soil temperature relative humidity and atmospheric temperature are found more congenial for crop production compared to pure coconut stands. Mixed Cropping in Coconut The practice of growing biennial and perennial crops like banana, papaya, pineapple, arecanut, mango, jack fruit etc., along with coconut is prevalent in the holdings of small farmers. Attempts have also been made to grow rubber in between the grown up coconut palms. In recent years, tree species like clove, nutmeg and cinnamon have been introduced and planted in the center of four coconut palms spaced 7.5 m apart. Attempts are being made to grow coffee and forest species (un-branched and quick growing type) in between coconut rows. However, the suitability/compatibility of mixed cropping system has mostly been overlooked and as a result, the competition with coconut for soil moisture during stress period, incidence of sunlight, infestation of pests and occurrence of diseases have been observed. The crops selected for mixed-cropping should preferably be shade tolerant since the incidence of sunlight would be insufficient below the coconut canopy. Banana as Mixed Crop Among the mixed crops tested, banana is found to be the most important intercrop for coconut garden. It responds to similar irrigation and manuring systems as coconut and also comparatively free from serious pests and diseases except the burrowing nematode in certain pockets. Banana as intercrop is mostly grown under rainfed conditions. About 1000 banana plants could be raised/ha of coconut garden (125 palm/ha). Pineapple as Mixed Crop Pineapple could be successfully raised as an intercrop both under rainfed and irrigated conditions. Under irrigated conditions, the size of each fruit would be about 1.5 kg; while as a rainfed crop, the size is reduced to half (0.71 kg). About 4000 kg pineapple/ha can be harvested in multi-storeyed cropping system and much more when only pineapple in grown as inter-corp. Cultural requirements of crops for mixed cropping in coconut garden Crops Propagation Planting pits Spacing No of.......... plants /ha Fertilizer dose(g/plant/year) N P2O5 K­2O Cocoa Grafts 75x75x75 cm 3mx3m (single hedge) 450 100 40 140 Pepper Rooted cuttings 50x50x50 cm 7.5x7.5m (At the base of the palm) 175 100 40 140 Clove Seedlings 60x60x60 cm 7.5x7.5m (At the centre of four palm) 148 300 250 750 Nutmeg Grafts 60x60x60 cm 7.5x7.5m (Centre of four palms) 148 500 250 1000 By growing crops in between coconut palms, there would be considerably yield increase in coconut and the root system is not competitive. Thus, the combination of crops has a mutually beneficial effect and there is the profitability of the whole cropping programme. Multiple Cropping System Coconut + Banana + Sirukizhangu + Bhendi is suitable system for the eastern region. Crops like banana, pepper, cocoa, nutmeg, vanilla can be tried under multiple cropping systems in suitable areas in the western region. In all the systems, apply recommended quantity of water and manures and fertilizers to the intercrops separately. Perennials: Cocoa, Nutmeg, Pepper, Clove, Lemongrass and Cinnamon. Annuals: (a) Kharif: Rice, Maize, Groundnut, Ginger, Tturmeric, Chilli, Yams, Colocasia, Red gram, Vegetables, Sweet potato, Tapioca, Banana, Pineapple, Papaya and Fodder grass. (b) Rabi: Sesame, Horse gram, Red gram, Vegetables, Cowpea, Sweet potato and Banana. (c) Summer: Vegetables In older plantation cocoa, cinnamon, pepper, clove, nutmeg etc. can be grown as mixed crops. However, these inter/mixed crops are to be adequately and separately manured in addition to the manures applied to the coconut palm. Green Manure and Cover Crops Green manure and cover crops recommended for cultivation in coconut gardens are: (a) Green manure crops: Crotalaria juncea (sunn hemp), Tephrosia purpurea (kolinji), Gliricidia maculata Indigofera hirsuta, Pueraria phaseoloides. (b) Cover crops: Calapagonium muconoides, Mimosa invisa, Stylosanthes gracilis (c) Shade-cum-green manure shrub: Tephrosia candida Sow green manure and cover crop seeds during April-May with the onset of pre-monsoon rains. The green manure crops should be ploughed in and incorporated into the soil during August-September. This will increase the water holding capacity of soil. Calapagonium can be grown either as green manure or cover crop. Tephrosia is especially suited for planting around seedling pits for summer shade and as a source of green manure in the rainy season. Top of page Weed Management Weeding and Interculture: Keep the pits free of weeds by periodical weeding. Remove the soil covering the collar of seedlings. As the seedlings grow and form stem, fill up the pits gradually by cutting the sides. Proper intercultivation provides control of weeds and creates soil mulch. Any tillage system (ploughing, digging, raking or forming mounds) that provides soil mulch and control weeds may be followed depending upon local conditions. The inter-space in the coconut garden has to be ploughed twice in a year in June - July and December - January For laterite, sandy and red sandy loam soils give two ploughing or diggings in May-June and September-October and one raking in January. In areas where surface run off is more, form mounds in September-October and level them in November-December. For the broad-leaved weeds, pre-emergence spraying of atrazine @1.0 kg a.i./ ha for the control of grasses and sedges. Post emergence spraying of glyphosate @ 10 ml and 20 g ammonium Sulphate /litre of water. Replanting or Under Planting: Replanting or under planting becomes necessary when the yield is very low due to old age, long-term neglect and continuous exposure to adverse conditions. Generally under planting is practiced where old palms are removed in stages over a period of three to four years. Peg marks the area to be under planted. Remove very poor yielder and those very close to the planting pits. Plant the seedlings in the usual way The other trees are removed @ one-third each year during 2nd, 3rd and 4th year after planting. If the existing garden is irregularly spaced, remove old palms within 1 m radial distance in first year, 2 m distance in second year, 3 m distance in third year and the rest in fourth year. Generally flowering is delayed a little in under planted palms. – CPCRI. Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Irrigation Management HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Irrigation Management Water Management For the first two years from planting, irrigate at the rate of 45 litres of water/seedling, once in 4 days during dry summer months. (Click the respective state to navigate this page) Tamil Nadu Kerala Karnataka Tamil Nadu From the 5th year onwards, adopt the following irrigation schedule based on pan evaporation for drip irrigation and basin irrigation. Western Region of Tamil Nadu Months Normal condition (for best yield) Moderate water scarcity condition Severe water scarcity condition A. Drip irrigation February to May 65 lit / day 45 lit/ day 22 lit / day January, August and September 55 lit / day 35 lit / day 18 lit/day June and July, October to December 45 lit / day 30 lit/ day 15 lit / day B. Basin irrigation February to May 410 lit / 6 days * January, August and September 410 lit /7 days* June and July, October to December 410 lit /9 days* Eastern Region of Tamil Nadu Months Normal condition (for best yield) Moderate water scarcity condition Severe water scarcity condition A. Drip irrigation March – September 80 lit / day 55 lit / day 27 lit/day October – February 50 lit / day 35 lit/ day 18 lit /day B. Basin irrigation March – September 410 lit / 5 days* October – February 410 lit /8 days* * Quantity of water to be applied in the basin. Add 30 - 40 % of the above quantity of water (135 -165 litres/palm) to meet the conveyance loss. Wrong Method: Irrigation by a Single Channel Correct Method: Irrigation by Main and Sub Channels Top of page Kerala Irrigate the palms during summer months in basins around palms as shown below: Irrigation Requirement of Coconut Parameters Soil texture Sandy Sandy loam Loam Silty clay Available Soil Moisture (cm/m) 8 12 17 21 Quantity of water / irrigation / palm in litres in a basin of 1.8 m radius 600 900 1300 1600 Frequency of irrigation (days) All areas in Kerala except north eastern portion of Thrissur and Palakkad districts 3-4 5 7-8 9 North eastern portion of Thrissur and Palakkad districts 2-3 `3-4 5-6 6-7 Note: In coastal sandy soils, seawater can be used for irrigation. Do not irrigate seedlings and very young palms upto 2 year with sea water. In irrigated gardens, interruption of irrigation would lead to serious setback in yield and general condition of palms. Hence, when once started, irrigation should be continued regularly and systematically. Drip irrigation is the best suited method of irrigation for coconut. It saves water, labour and energy. Top of page Karnataka Irrigation and soil moisture conservation Coconut palm responds to summer irrigation. Production of female flowers and setting % increases considerably due to irrigation. Since spadix initiation to ripening of nuts takes nearly 42 months, the full benefit of irrigation can be felt only after 3 years. Burying the Coconut husk or coir dust is one of the most effective ways of conserving soil moisture. These husks coir dusts can act as sponge and absorb and retain moisture about 6-10 times respectively to their own weight and slowly relative to the coconut trees during dry periods. As the husk or dust breaks down slowly, their effect will last for 4-6 years and 8-10 years respectively. On decomposition they also add potash to the soil. These husks or dusts can be added in pits / trenches taken in between the trees but in all the cases depth should be 0.6m and 1.8m away from the bole. Husks / dusts can be added in alternate layers with soil. Each palm requires 55 to 120 litres of water every day. Since availability of irrigation water is scanty, for judicious utilization of this resource, adoption of drip irrigation system is most ideal. Drip irrigation is known to save about 30 – 40% water with 38% - 40% increase in yield compared to basin irrigation system apart from conserving soil and reducing the competition from weeds for water and nutrients. Through fertigation, we can achieve efficient utilization of both water and nutrients. Drip Irrigation: In the traditional system of irrigation followed in coconut gardens such as flood irrigation, basin irrigation etc. irrigation efficiency is only 30 to 50 per cent due to considerable wastage of water. In addition, cost on inputs like labour and energy in adopting these systems are high. Scarcity of water and increasing cost of labour and energy are deterrents in adopting these traditional irrigation systems. Under these circumstances, drip irrigation is the most suitable system of irrigation to coconut. Some of the major advantages of drip irrigation are: It saves water Enhances plant growth and yield Saves energy and labour, most suited for soils having low water holding capacity and undulating terrain Reduces weed growth and improves efficiency of fertilizers. For coconut, generally, three to four drippers are given per palm. For drip irrigation, open four pits of size of 30 x 30 x 30 cm opposite to each other at one meter distance from the trunk. Place 40 cm long PVC pipe (16 mm) in a slanting position in each pit and place the drippers inside the tube and allow the water to drip 30 cm below the soil surface. Fill the pits with coir pith to prevent evaporation. The cost of drip system including installation will be Rs. 130 to 150 per palm (exclusive of pump) which works out to Rs. 23000 to 26000/- approximately per hectare of coconut garden with 4 emitters per palm. Fertigation: Application of 50% of the recommended dose of fertilizer through drip fertigation produces a yield equivalent to 100% of the recommended dose of fertilizer applied through conventional method. The fertilizers are applied through bypass tank to the palms. Fertilizers namely 70g Urea, 60g DAP and 170g Murate of potash are recommended for single dose per palm (Like this 6 doses are to be given to the palms which are to be applied from Dec – May at monthly intervals for Kerala condition). For phosphorus application commercial phosphoric acid can also be used. Drought Management and Soil Moisture Conservation: Coconut produces nuts round the year. Therefore, adequate supply of water is essential for its unhindered growth. Soil moisture is essential for the absorption of nutrients by roots. Moisture stress leads to stunted growth, drooping of leaves, immature nut fall and decreased yield. Mulching is an effective method of conserving soil moisture. Mulch the coconut basins with green / dry leaves at the close of northeast monsoon (October-November). Mulching also adds organic matter to the soil and reduces the soil temperature. Do not disturb soil in the coconut garden during summer months. In level lands, during rainy seasons excess water may be conserved in small trenches dug out in the plantation. In sloppy areas, land may be terraced and trenches dug across. This will facilitate maximum percolation of rainwater and water storage. For moisture conservation, lowermost 3-5 leaves may be cut and removed. Provide adequate shade for the transplanted seedlings for 1-2 years. To minimize the heat load on the stem, application of lime solution on the trunk up to a height of 2-3 m at the start of the summer season is recommended. a. Mulching with Coconut Husks/Leaves/Coir Pith: Apply coconut husks with convex surface facing upwards (100 Nos.) or dried coconut leaves (15 Nos.) or coir pith up to a height of 10 cm in the basin of 1.8 m radius around the palms as mulch for soil moisture conservation particularly during summer season. b. Burial of Coconut Husk or Coir Pith: Husk burial can be done in coconut basins or in the interspaces to overcome drought and button shedding. Bury husks @ 100 Nos. with concave surface facing upwards or 25 kg of coir pith /palm in circular trenches, dug 30 cm width and 60 cm depth at 1.5 – 2.0 metres radius. The husk can be also buried in the trenches at a distance of 3 m from the palm with a size of 45 cm deep and 150 cm width in between two rows of coconut. The soaking of the coconut husk or coir pith as the case may be preserves the monsoon rains. The beneficial effect of husk burial will last for about 5-7 years. Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Irrigation Management HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Nutrient Management Nutrient and their Requirements - Effects of Nutrients - Manuring in Tamil Nadu – TNAU - Manuring in Karnataka - Manuring in Kerala - Fertilizer Requirement of Adult Palms– KERALA (Under Rainfed Condition) - Time, Frequency and Method of Fertilizer Application - Biofertilizers - Vermicomposting - Coirpith Composting - Recycling of Palm Waste - TNAU Coconut Tonic - Bio-Fertilizer Recommendation - Organic Recycling Physiological Disorder 1. Major Deficiency - Nitrogen (N) Deficiency - Phosphorus Deficiency - Boron (B) Deficiency - Manganese (Mn) Deficiency - Magnesium (Mg) Deficiency 2. Minor Deficiency - Sulphur Deficiency - Iron Deficiency - Zinc Deficiency - Calcium Deficiency - Copper Deficiency Protection Technologies of Coconut Nutrient and their Requirements Essential elements in coconut nutrition Of the primary nutrients, potash (K) has been found to be the most important in coconut cultivation, followed by nitrogen (N). There is a general response to the application of K and N; while response to phosphorous (P) is seen only in certain restricted and localized condition. Among the secondary nutrients, magnesium (Mg) and chlorine (Cl) have beneficial effects, followed by calcium (Ca), Sulphur(S) and sodium (Na). Among micro-nutrients, zinc (Zn), boron (B) and manganese (Mn) are required under certain restricted conditions. Effects of Nutrients: Nitrogen: The supply of nitrogen which is a constituent of plant cells as well as chlorophyll, the green colouring matter of leaves, is of great importance for the rapid development and growth of the trees. Nitrogen promotes the developments of the vegetative parts of the plant especially the leaves and shoots as well as to increase the number of leaves. Phosphorus: Phosphorus is found especially in leaves and seeds and also in parts of the plants where vigorous cell division is taking place. It plays an important role in root growth and increased yields. Potassium: Potash has its important and specific functions apart from those, which it jointly performs in association with phosphorus. It regulates the water economy of the plant and so is indispensable for the rational utilization of limited water supplies for the production of the highest possible yields. It enables the plant to withstand drought. Potash is known to help root development, enabling the palm to take up more nutrients from the soil. Since potash is particularly necessary for the formation of sugar, fat, and fibrous material, the coconut palm may be expected to have a high requirement of potash. Manganese: It aids in the formation of chlorophyll in leaves. It is present mostly in lower leaves and provides favourable growth conditions during younger stages of palm. Magnesium: Magnesium (Mg) has beneficial effects on the general growth and productivity of palm. Magnesium improved production of more female flowers, high setting percentage and more number of nuts per bunch. It also plays an important role in photosynthesis and greenness of leaves. Sulphur: Sulphur increases the oil content and reduces N and sugar contents. Top of page Manuring in Tamil Nadu – TNAU Fertilizer may be applied in two equal splits during June – July and December – January. Apply manures and fertilizers in circular basins of 1.8 m from the base of the palm, incorporate and irrigate sufficient moisture should be present at the time of manuring. Phosphorous may be applied as super phosphate in the basins and incorporated or as DAP through drip when good quality of water is available. Fertilizer Requirement of Palms – TAMIL NADU Time after Planting Compost (kg/palm/year) Blanket Recommendation (g/palm) Straight Fertilizer (g/palm) N P K Urea Super Phosphate Muriate of Potash 6th month after planting 10 - - - - - - 2nd year 20 140 80 300 300 500 500 3rd year 30 280 160 600 610 1000 1000 4th year 40 420 240 900 910 1500 1500 5th year 50 560 320 1200 1300 2000 2000 Manuring in semicircular basins – old method Source: Adhisaya maram thennai(2002) Time after Planting DAP & Others (g/palm) 17:17:17: Complex (g/palm) 20:20:0 complex (g/palm) DAP Urea MOP 17:17:17 Complex Urea MOP 20:20:0 complex Urea MOP 2nd year 174 235 500 470 130 365 400 130 500 3rd year 348 470 1000 940 260 730 800 260 1000 4th year 522 700 1500 1410 390 1095 1200 390 1500 5th year 696 940 2000 1880 520 1460 1600 520 2000 Under irrigated conditions, the fertilizers can be applied in 3-4 equal split doses. 1000:500:2000gm NPK/ palm/year is to be recommended for hybrid coconut in coastal Tamil Nadu. Fertigation may be done at monthly intervals with 75% of the recommended dose of the above fertilizers. Recommended Micro Nutrient Mixture – Tamil Nadu Quantity recommended: 1 kg/palm/year (Ferrous, Manganese, Zinc, Boron, Copper) Method of application: Soil application (Basal) apply along with farm yard manure. Top of page Manuring in Karnataka Organic Matter: FYM/ Compost: Before Planting – 12.5 t/ha. Every Year – 50 kg/palm Fertilizers Requirement for Pre-monsoon Condition Time after planting Blanket Recommendation (g/palm/year) Straight Fertilizer (g/palm/year) Pre monsoon Post Monsoon Pre monsoon Post Monsoon N P K N P K Urea SSP MOP Urea SSP MOP 1st year after planting Planting in May – June 50 40 135 - - - 110 250 225 2nd year after planting 50 40 135 110 80 270 110 250 225 240 500 450 3rd year after planting 110 80 270 220 160 540 240 500 450 480 1000 900 4th year after planting 170 120 400 330 200 800 370 750 670 720 1250 1335 Time after planting DAP & Others (g/palm) Pre monsoon Post monsoon DAP Urea MOP DAP Urea MOP 1st year after planting - - - 87 75 225 2nd year after planting 87 75 225 175 170 450 3rd year after planting 175 170 450 348 340 900 4th year after planting 260 267 670 435 545 1335 Time after planting 17:17:17: Complex (g/palm) Pre monsoon Post monsoon 17:17:17 Complex Urea MOP 17:17:17 Complex Urea MOP 1st year after planting - - - 235 22 158 2nd year after planting 235 22 158 470 65 315 3rd year after planting 470 65 315 941 130 630 4th year after planting 705 110 465 1176 282 664 Time after planting 20:20:0 complex (g/palm) Pre monsoon Post monsoon 20:20:0 complex Urea MOP 20:20:0 complex Urea MOP 1st year after planting - - - 200 22 225 2nd year after planting 200 22 225 400 65 450 3rd year after planting 400 65 450 800 130 900 4th year after planting 600 110 670 1000 282 1335 Apply MgSO­4 for bearing trees @ 0.5 kg/palm in coastal region (Note: Lime incorporation – 15 days prior to application of fertilizer during September – October. Top of page Manuring in Kerala Manuring young palms – KAU: For the first two years after planting under rainfed conditions, apply fertilizers in two split doses at the rates shown in the table given below Fertilizer Requirement of Young Palms in Relation to that of Adult Palms– KERALA (Under Rainfed Condition) Time after planting Blanket Recommendation (g/palm) Straight Fertilizer (g/palm) N P K Urea Super Phosphate Muriate of potash 3 months 50 32 120 110 200 200 1st year 167 107 400 360 670 660 2nd year 334 214 800 720 1340 1330 Time after planting DAP & Others (g/palm) 17:17:17: Complex (g/palm) 20:20:0 complex (g/palm) DAP Urea MOP 17:17:17 Complex Urea MOP 20:20:20 complex Urea MOP 3 months 70 81 200 188 40 146 160 40 200 1st year 232 271 660 630 130 486 535 130 660 2nd year 464 545 1330 1258 260 973 1070 260 1330 Note: Under irrigated conditions, the fertilizers can be applied in 3-4 equal split doses. In the case of low lying areas, apply fertilizer after water table recedes in one single dose or in two split doses as conditions permit. In all types of soils that are low in organic matter content (except reclaimed clayey soils and alluvial soils), apply organic matter @ of 15-25 kg/palm/year during June-July from the second year of planting. Top of page Fertilizer Requirement of Adult Palms– KERALA (Under Rainfed Condition) General Recommendation (g/palm) Straight Fertilizer (g/palm) N P K Urea Amm. Sulphate Super Phosphate Rock Phosphate Muriate of Potash (a) Average management 340 170 680 750 1650 1060 570 1130 (b) Good management 500 320 1200 1080 2000 2000 1070 1990 For reclaimed clayey soils ( as in Kuttanad) 250 350 900 540 1190 2190 1170 1495 Red loam soils (southern Kerala) 680 230 900 1480 3240 1440 770 1495 Hybrids & High Yielding Palms (a) For irrigated areas 1000 500 2000 2170 4880 3130 1670 3320 (b) For rain fed conditions 500 320 1200 1090 2380 2000 1070 1990 Time After Planting DAP & Others (g/palm) 17:17:17: Complex (g/palm) 20:20:0 Complex (g/palm) DAP Urea MOP 17:17:17 Complex Urea MOP 20:20:0 Complex Urea MOP (a) Average management 370 595 1130 1000 370 847 850 370 1130 (b) Good management 695 814 1990 1882 390 1460 1600 390 1990 For reclaimed clayey soils ( as in Kuttanad) 760 297 1495 1470 625 (SSP) 1080 1250 625 (SSP) 1495 Red loam soils (southern Kerala) 500 1280 1495 1353 977 1112 1150 977 1495 Hybrids & High Yielding Palms (a) For irrigated areas 1085 1750 3320 2940 1085 2490 2500 1085 3320 (b) For rain fed conditions 695 814 1990 1882 390 1460 1600 390 1990 Under irrigated conditions, fertilizers can be applied in 3-4 equal split doses. In the case of low-lying areas, apply fertilizers in one single dose after water table recedes or in two split doses as conditions permit. The application of organic materials such as forest leaves, cattle manure, coir dust or coconut shredding at 10 kg per pit in the first three years and 15-25 kg thereafter will be useful to obtain better establishment of coconut palms in sandy soils and in coastal situations. In situations where the available P2O5 status of the soil is more than 10 ppm, application of phosphatic fertilizers can be skipped for a few years until the status of P2O5 reaches 10 ppm. For sandy and sandy loams of Onattukara and similar situations and also for hybrid palms grown in root (wilt) affected areas, apply 500 g N + 300 g P2O5 + 1000 g K2O along with 500 g MgSO4 / palm / year. Application of MgSO4 to coconut palms earlier confined to root wilt affected areas is recommended for the whole state (ad hoc recommendation). The N:P2O5:K2O recommendation given for high yielding palms is, in general, sufficient for palms yielding up to 100 nuts per year. For palms yielding more than 100 nuts per year, an additional dose of 10 g N, 5 g P2O5 and 15 g K2O may be supplied for every nut exceeding 100 nuts (ad hoc recommendation). In laterite soils, 50% of the K2O requirement of coconut can be substituted by Na2O supplied in the form of sodium chloride. Top of page Time, Frequency and Method of Fertilizer Application: The proper time for the application of fertilizers is when sufficient moisture is available in the soil. Under rainfed conditions, apply fertilizers in two split doses, 1/3 at the time of early southwest monsoon showers in April-June and 2/3 in September-October. Under irrigated conditions, apply fertilizers in three or four equal doses in April-May, August-September, December and February-March. Apply lime or dolomite during April-May, magnesium sulphate during August-September and organic matter during June-July. For an adult palm 1 kg dolomite or 1 kg lime + 0.5 kg MgSO4 is required per annum. Apply fertilizers and manures in circular basins at a radius of 2.0 m from the base of the palm and 10 cm deep, opened after the onset of southwest monsoon. Split doses can be applied with irrigation water in summer months. Application of MgSO4 at the rate of 500g/palm/year for adult coconut plantations is recommended. Boron deficiency causes characteristic malformation of leaves like hook leaves, nut cracking, drying of the female flowers etc. Soil application of Borax @ 50 g/tree twice at monthly intervals after appearance of the first symptom corrects the deficiency. In the root (wilt) disease affected area, it has been recommended to apply Borax @ 300 g/seedling and Borax @ 500 g/ adult tree. Application of magnesium @ 500 g MgO per palm is advantageous for the management of root (wilt) diseased palms to restore palm vigour and sustain the productivity. Top of page Biofertilizers: The root regions of coconut palm are inhabited by a number of free living and associative symbiotic nitrogen–fixing bacteria having nitrogenase activity. The association of N2–fixing Azospirillum amazonense with the roots of coconut palm has recently been confirmed. The other associative nitrogen fixers include Azospirillum lipoferum, Azospirillum brasilense, Herbaspirillum frisingense, Bacillus spp., Burkholderia spp., Azoarcus spp., Arthrobacter spp. and many more which are yet to be identified. Some of these are capable of fixing nitrogen even in the presence of nitrogen fertilizer. Microbial combinations may have very great potential for plant growth enhancement. While raising coconut seedlings in coir dust-soil mixture, Beijerinckia indica and associative diazotrophs such as Azospirillum, Arthrobacter, Azoarcus, Herbaspirillum, Bacillus, Burkholderia and Pseudomonas are promising microbiological inoculants which enhances the growth and performance of seedlings. Top of page Vermicomposting: The local species of Eudrilus identified from coconut garden which is superior to other species in composting of coconut plantation wastes. This earthworm can be multiplied fast in a 1:1 mixture of cowdung and decayed organic wastes. Keep 10 kg of this mixture in bucket and release 50 to 100 worms. Mulch the mixture with grass and cover with a net. Maintain the moisture. In 1 to 2 months 150 to 300 g earthworm will be produced. Top of page Coirpith Composting: Coir pith contains very less nitrogen and has large amounts of lignin and phytotoxic polyphenols and has to be composted before using as manure. Exposure to rains and sunlight for many years results in loss of problematic chemicals and the use of weathered coir pith may be advantages. Fresh coir pith has a wide C:N ratio (about 100:1) and for initiating microbial action, nitrogenous organic or inorganic materials are to be added. Additionally, fortification with rock phosphate at the rate of 10kg per ton of coir pith can also favor microbial action. The well known technology for composting coir pith using Pleurotus sajor caju may be utilized for large scale composting. For composting one ton of coir pith, 5kg of urea and 5 bottles of Pleurotus spawn is required. 100 kg of coir pith is spread on a level land in shaded place and 1 bottle of spawn is sprinkled over it. The spawn layer is covered with 100 kg coir pith and 1 kg urea is sprinkled over it. This process is repeated 5 times to get a heap, which is protected from direct sunlight and rain. Proper moisture to be maintains in the heap and is allowed to undergo degradation for 1 month. This compost can be used as manure in coconut plantations. Top of page Recycling of Palm Waste: Recycling of palm waste is very much beneficial especially for maintaining the availability status of micronutrients and trace elements. Palm wastes like coconut leaves, crown waste, dried spathes, husk etc. may be deposited in a small trench of convenient length, 0.5 m to 0.75 m wide and 0.3 to 0.5 m deep at a distance of 2-2.5 m away from the base of the trunk. Fill up this trench with the palm wastes along one side of the palm (say north) in one year, opposite side (south) in the next year, east in the third year and so on. This practice of organic recycling of waste has been found to improve the growth and productivity of the palms. Top of page TNAU Coconut Tonic: For nut bearing coconut, root feed TNAU coconut tonic @ 200ml/palm once in six months. Top of page Bio-Fertilizer Recommendation 50 g of Azospirillum 50 g of Phosphobacteria ( or ) 100 g Azophos 50 g of VAM Mix all the contents in sufficient quantity of compost or FYM and apply near feeding roots once in 6 months / palm starting from planting. Don’t mix with chemical fertilizers and pesticides Top of page Organic Recycling: Any one of the green manure crops like sunnhemp, wild indigo, Calapagonium or Daincha may be sown and ploughed in situ at the time of flowering as a substitute of compost to be applied. Sow sunnhemp @ 50 g/palm in the basin and incorporate before flowering. Coir pith compost/vermicompost made from coir pith/ coconut leaves/ other wastes from coconut grove can be applied. Top of page Physiological Disorder Deficiencies for nutrients such as nitrogen, phosphorus, Potassium and micronutrients are very common in coconuts cultivation. Symptoms are often observed in coconut gardens where the trees are not properly fertilized especially with organic manures. (i) Major Deficiency Nitrogen (N) Deficiency Symptoms: N deficiency is typically caused by insufficient N in the soil. Nitrogen deficiency begins as a uniform light green discoloration / yellowing (uniform chlorosis) of the oldest leaves. Yellowing starts from tip to base of the lower leaves and will proceed up. As the deficiency progresses, younger leaves will also become discoloured. Older leaves are golden yellow colour. Growth virtually stops when N deficiency is severe and become shedding of leaves. Diagnostic Techniques: Nitrogen deficiency is easily diagnosed by symptoms alone, although leaf nutrient analysis can also be helpful. Nitrogen deficiency can be confused with Fe or S deficiency, although the chlorosis in those deficiencies is typically most severe on the youngest leaves. The reverse is true for N deficiency. Management: Foliar application of 2% urea thrice at fortnightly interval or soil application of 1-2 kg urea / tree or Root feeding of 1% urea 200 ml twice a year. Top of page Phosphorus Deficiency Symptoms of damage: Deficiency occurs in acid and alkaline soils. Purple coloration in leaves (In severe cases may leaves turn yellow before drying prematurely) Sluggish growth Leaves stay upright Premature leaf shedding The growth, leaf size and leaf number reduced. The root growth is restricted if phosphorus deficiency is recorded. There are no clear visual symptoms of phosphorus deficiency other than stunting and decrease in yield. This deficiency common in wide range of soil Management: Foliar spray of DAP 2% twice at fortnightly interval or soil application of FYM 5kg/tree. Root feeding of 1% DAP 2 ml twice a year. Top of page Boron (B) Deficiency Symptoms: Boron deficiency is caused by insufficient B in the soil. It may be caused by soil drying and high soil pH, while temporary B deficiency is caused by heavy leaching. Symptoms always occur on newly emerging leaves, and remain visible on these leaves as they mature and are replaced by younger leaves. One of the earliest symptoms of B deficiency on coconut palm is leaf wrinkling and manifested as sharply bent leaflet tips, commonly called “hook leaf”. These sharp leaflet hooks are quire rigid and cannot be straightened out without tearing the leaflets. Leaves have a serrated zigzag appearance. One of the most common symptoms of B deficiency is the failure of newly emerging spear leaves to open normally. In a chronic stage, multiple unopened spear leaves may be visible at the apex of the canopy. Boron deficiency also occurs in inflorescence and nuts. The inflorescence and nuts are become necrotic. Diagnostic Techniques: Boron deficiency symptoms are quite distinctive and are usually sufficient for diagnosis by themselves. Manganese deficiency produces symptoms similar to those of B deficiency, but no other common deficiency produces symptoms that could be confused with those of B deficiency. Because B deficiency is so transient in nature, the element is immobile within the palm (cannot move from one leaf to another), and deficiencies affect only leaf primordial developing within the bud area, leaf analysis is not particularly useful. Application of Boron to Coconut Stage Source (choose one) Rate Time and Method Nursery Borax/Sodium Tetraborate 0.2% (2 g/L H,O), (75-100 ml/seedling) 1-2 times by spraying or drenching 1 year old Borax/Sodium Tetraborate/Octaborate 5-10 g/plant Once each year to soil 2-3 years old Borax/Sodium Tetraborate/Octaborate 15-20 g/plant Once each year to soil 4 years old and more Borax/Sodium Tetraborate/Octaborate 30-50 g/plant Once every 2 years by soil Popularity: 4% Top of page Manganese (Mn) Deficiency: Manganese deficiency is very common on alkaline soils, but can occur in containers if drainage is poor or soils temperatures are cool. Symptoms: The newest leaves of Mn deficient palms emerge chlorotic with longitudinal necrotic streaks. As the deficiency progresses, newly emerging leaflets appear necrotic and withered on all but basal portions of the leaflets. This withering results in a curling of the leaflets about the rachis giving the leaf a frizzled appearance (‘frizzle top’). On new leaves of Mn-deficient palm, necrotic leaflet tips fall off and the leaf has a signed appearance. In severely Mn- deficient palms, growth stops and newly emerging leaves consist solely of necrotic petiole stubs. Diagnostic Techniques: Visual symptoms may be sufficient to diagnose this disorder, but leaf nutrient analysis is also suggested, since symptoms of boron (B) deficiency can be similar. Late stage potassium (K) deficiency symptoms are virtually indistinguishable from those of Mn deficiency at a distance and close examination is required to look for characteristic longitudinal streaking and basal symptom distribution of Mn deficiency. Management: Soil application of MnSO4 @ 25kg/ha Top of page Magnesium (Mg) Deficiency: Magnesium deficiency is caused by insufficient Mg in the soil. Magnesium is readily leached from sandy soils and other soils having little cation exchange capacity. High levels of nitrogen (N), Potassium (K), or calcium (Ca) in the soil can also induce or exacerbate Mg deficiencies. Symptoms: Magnesium deficiency appears on the oldest leaves of palms as broad chlorotic (yellow) bands along the margins with the central portion of the leaves remaining distinctly green. In severe cases leaflet tips may become necrotic. Older leaves become bronzed and dry appearance. Leaflets show necrosis and turn to reddish brown with translucent spots yellowing starts at the tip and spreads to the base. Diagnostic Techniques: Visual symptoms alone are usually sufficient to diagnose Mg deficiency. Magnesium deficiency symptoms differ from those of K deficiency in that symptom severity of discoloration K- deficient leaves is usually orange to bronze, shading gradually to green at the base of the leaf, whereas Mg- deficient leaves have distinctly green leaf centers and bright lemon yellow to orange margins. Management: Soil application of MgSO4 1-2 kg/tree/year. Root feeding of 200 ml of 0.2% MgSO4 twice a year. Top of page (ii) Minor Deficiency Sulphur Deficiency Symptoms: Typical symptoms are yellowish-green or yellowish-orange leaflets. Older leaves are remaining green. Leaves droop as the stem becomes weak. In older palms, leaf number and size are reduced. Sometimes an apron of dead fronds develops around the stem due to weakness of the rachis. Nuts may fall prematurely. Copra is rubbery and of poor market quality. Management: Soil application of gypsum 2 - 5 kg/tree/year. Root feeding of 0.2% gypsum. Top of page Iron Deficiency Symptoms: Iron deficiency usually appears on palms growing in poorly aerated soils or those that have been planted too deeply. Water logged soils and deep planting effectively suffocate the roots and reduce their effectiveness in taking up nutrients such as Fe. The main symptom of iron deficiency is chlorosis or yellowing between the veins of new leaves (Uniform chlorotic new leaves as the deficiency progresses, the tips become necrotic and leaf size reduced. Management: Application of Feso4 0.25 to 0.5 kg/tree/year Top of page Zinc Deficiency Symptoms: Zinc deficiency is characterized by formation of small leaves wherein the leaf size is reduced to 50%. Leaflets become chlorotic, narrow and reduced in length. In acute deficiency, flowering is delayed. Zinc deficiency will also lead to button shedding. Its occurs mostly in saline soils. Management: Soil application of ZnSO4 @ 25kg/ha Top of page Calcium Deficiency Symptoms: Young leaves exhibit narrow white bands at margins. Interveinal chlorosis. Rusty appearance in leaf margin. Rolling up of leaves. Occurs only in acid soil Management: Soil application of lime based on lime requirement and root feeding of 1% calcium nitrate. Top of page Copper Deficiency Symptoms: Coppery bluish leaf. Rolling of terminal leaves due to loss of turgor. Leaves appear to be bleached grey. Fail to produce flowers Management: Soil application of CuSO4 @ 25 kg per ha. Top of page Protection technologies of Coconut: Management practices include growing green manure (sun hemp) as an intercrop and ploughing in situ. Application of 650g urea, 1kg super phosphate and 1 kg potash per tree along with 25 kg farmyard manure (FYM) once in six months in June- July and December- January. Application of micronutrients viz., magnesium sulphate 150g, zinc sulphate 75g, borax 50g along with 10kg of well decomposed FYM per tree prior to rainy season. These measures help overcome nutritional disorders and restore the vigour and productivity of the trees. Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Planting Seasons & Climate HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Pest and Disease Management Pest of Coconut Disease Management Pest of Coconut 1. Rhinoceros Beetle: Oryctes rhinoceros 2. Coconut Eriophyid mite: Aceria guerreronis 3. Red palm weevil: Rhynchophorus ferrugineus 4. Leaf eating caterpiller (or) Black headed caterpillar: Opisina arenosella 5. Slug caterpillar: Parasa lepida and Contheyla rotunda 6. Coconut skipper: Gangara thyrsi; Suastus gremius 7. Coreid bug: Paradasynus rostratus 8. Bag worm: Manatha albipes 9. White grub: Leucopholis coneophora 10. Termite: Odontotermes obesus 11. Lacewing bug: Stephanitis typicus 12. Scale insect: Aspidiotus destructor 13. Mealy bug: Pseudococcus longispinus 14. Palm Civet: Vivera zibatha 15. Rat: Rattus rattus wroughtoni 16. Nut Borer: Cyclodes omma 17. Nematodes 1. RHINOCEROS BEETLE: Oryctes rhinoceros Pest population occurs round the year but population maximum during June – Sep coinciding with the onset of monsoon. Rhinoceros Beetle Rhinoceros Grub Symptoms of Damage The adult beetle bores into the unopened fronds and spathes. Damage by the pest leads to 10 to 15% loss in yield. The attacked frond when fully opened shows characteristic triangular cuts. Central spindle appears cut or toppled Fully opened fronds showing characteristic diamond shaped cuttings Holes with chewed fibre sticking out at the base of central spindle. Holes with chewed fibre sticking out in central spindle Triangular cuts on leaves Identification of the Pest Egg: Oval creamy white egg in manure pits or decaying vegetable matter at a depth of 5 to 15 cm. Egg periods is 8 to 18 days. Female laid 140 to 150 eggs. Grub: Grub is stout, sluggish, white “C”-shaped with pale brown head and found at a depth of 5 to 30 cm. Pupa: Grub pupates in earthen cells at a depth of 0.3 to 1 m Adult: Adult beetle is stout, brownish black or black and has a long horn projecting dorsally from the head in male. Horn is short in female. Management (i) Cultural Method: Remove and burn all dead coconut trees in the garden (which are likely to serve as breeding ground) to maintain good sanitation. Collect and destroy the various bio-stages of the beetle from the manure pits (breeding ground of the pest) whenever manure is lifted from the pits. (ii) Mechanical Method: During peak period of population build up, the adult beetle may be extracted from the palm crown using GI hooks. Set up light traps following the first rains in summer and monsoon period to attract and kill the adult beetles. (iii) Chemical Method: Rhinoceros Beetle management - Chemical Method - Video The topmost three leaf axils around the spindle may be filled with any of the following mixtures as a prophylactic measure: (a) Sevidol 8G 25 g + fine sand 200 g, which is to be done thrice in a year in April-May, September-October and December-January. (b) For seedlings, apply Naphthalene balls 10.5 g (approx. three to four balls) covered with fine sand, once in 45 days. Place phorate 10 G 5 g in perforated sachets in two inner most leaf axils for 2 times at 6 months intervals. Treat manure pits and other possible breeding sites with 0.01% carbaryl (50 % WP) on w/w basis. Treatment will have to be repeated every three months. (iv) Trap Method: Rhinoceros Beetle Trapped Rhinoceros Beetle Set up Rhino lure pheromone trap @ 5 traps/ha to trap and kill the beetles. The dispenser may be hanged in a plastic bucket having 2 liter of insecticide solution once in a week. Trapped beetles can be disposed off. (v) Biological Method: Application of green muscardine fungus, Metarrhizium anisopliae @ 5 x 1011 spores / m3 - spray 250ml Metarrizhium culture + 750ml water in manure pits to check the perpetuation of the pest. Field release of Baculovirus oryctes inoculated adult rhinoceros beetle @ 15 beetles/ha reduces the leaf and crown damage caused by this beetle. Soak castor cake at 1 kg in 5 liter of water in small mud pots and keep them in the coconut gardens to attract and kill the adults. Apply mixture of either neem seed powder + sand (1:2) @150 g per palm or neem seed kernel powder + sand (1:2) @150 g per palm in the base of the 3 inner most leaves in the crown. Top of page 2. COCONUT ERIOPHYID MITE: Aceria guerreronis Colony of coconut mite Eriophyid mite under microscope Symptoms of Damage The earliest symptom on 2-3 month old buttons is pale yellow triangular patches seen below the perianth. Later, these patches become brown. Severely affected buttons may fall. As the buttons grow, brown patches lead to black necrotic lesions with longitudinal fissures on the husk. Oozing of the gummy exudation from the affected surface of the nuts. Uneven growth results in distortion and stunting of nuts leading to reduction in copra yield. In severe cases, the nuts are malformed with cracks and hardened husk. Yellow patches on leaves Brown colour patches on nuts Identification of the Pest Mite are usually found under the bracts of fertilized female flowers and do not infest the unfertilized flowers. This mite is very minute in size measuring 200 – 250 micron in length and 36 – 52 micron in width with two pairs of legs. Nymph and Adult is pale in colour with elongate body and worm like appearance. The life cycle of this mite, which consists of egg, two larval instars and an adult stage, is completed in 7 -10 days. Management (i) Cultural Method: Collect and destroy all the fallen buttons of the affected palm. Grow intercrop (sun hemp, four crops/year) and shelter belt with casuarina all round the coconut garden to check further entry. Providing adequate irrigation. Apply urea 1.3 kg, super phosphate 2.0kg and muriate of potash * 3.5 kg/palm/year. * Increased quantity is recommended to increase the plant resistance to the mite. Soil application of micro nutrients like, Borax 50 g + gypsum 1.0kg + Manganese sulphate 0.5 kg/palm/ year TNAU Micronutrient solution 200 ml/tree. Eriophyid Mite Management - Chemical Method - Video (ii) Chemical Method: i. Root Feeding: Monocrotophos 36 WSC @ 15ml or triazophos 40 EC @15 ml or carbosulfan 25EC @ 15 ml / 15 ml of water After root feeding, next harvest should be done 45 days later. TNAU - Agro biocide - 30 ml/tree - (60 days after Carbosulfan root feeding). Note: Pluck nuts before root feeding ii. Spot application of ecofriendly Botanicals Round 1: Azadirachtin 1% (5 ml in one lit. of water) Round 2: Neem oil + Teepol (30 ml in one lit. of water) Triazophos 40 EC 5 ml/lit or monocrotophos 36 WSC @ 2 ml / lit or carbosulfan 25 EC 2 ml/ lit in alternation with neem azal 1% 5ml/lit as spot application Neem cake application @ 5 kg per palm per year Preparation of neem oil + garlic emulsion (2%): To prepare 10 litres of 2% neem oil + garlic emulsion, 200 ml neem oil, 200 g garlic and 50 g ordinary bar soap are required. Slice the bar soap and dissolve in 500 ml lukewarm water. Grind 200 g of garlic and take the extract in 300 ml of water. Pour the 500 ml soap solution in 200 ml neem oil slowly and stir vigorously to get a good emulsion. Mix the garlic extract in the neem oil + soap emulsion. Dilute this 1 litre stock solution by adding 9 litres of water to get 10 litres of 2 % neem oil + garlic emulsion. Method of Application The botanicals should be applied in the sequence indicated above at 45 days interval using a one litre hand sprayer. Rocker or Pedal sprayer can be used for spraying small trees. The spray should be applied at the crown region by a climber covering only the top six bunches during non rainy season. Precautions and Safety Measures Spraying should be avoided during windy season to prevent contamination. At the time of spraying, protective mask and clothing should be used. Wash face and hands cleanly with soap after spraying. Biological Method: Entomofungal pathogen Hirsutella thompsonii and Verticillium lecanii are reported to be promising in managing the mites. Both the pathogens are mass multiplied by a commercial firm and sold in the market. Top of page 3. RED PALM WEEVIL: Rhynchophorus ferrugineus It occurs round the year but becomes severe after monsoon Red palm weevil pupa with case Red palm weevil Symptoms of Damage Red palm weevil is one of the most destructive pests of coconut, oil palms and ornamental palms. Holes on the trunk Chewed up fibrous matter from the hole The hole can be seen on the stem with chewed up fibres protruding out. Many times reddish brown liquid can be seen oozing out from the hole. The grubs cause damage inside the stem or crown by feeding on soft tissues and often cause severe damage especially when a large number of them bore into the soft, growing parts. In case of severe infestation the inside portion of trunk is completely eaten and become full of rotting fibres. In case of young palms the top withers while in older palms the top portion of trunk bends and ultimately breaks at the bend (wilting). Sometimes the gnawing sound produced by the feeding grubs inside will also be audible. In the advanced stage of infestation yellowing of the inner whorl of leaves occur. The crowns falls down or dry up later when palm is dead. Identification of the Pest Egg: Oval and creamy white in colour. Eggs laid in scooped out small cavities, wounds and other cut injuries on the trunk Grub: Light yellowish grub without legs. Stout, fleshy and apodous with a conical body bulged in middle and tapering towards the end Pupa: The full frown larva pupates inside the stem and fibrous cocoon made out of fibrous strands Adult: Reddish brown weevil has six dark spots on thorax. Male has conspicuous long snout has a tuft of hairs. Management (i) Cultural Method: Remove and burn all wilting or damaged palms in coconut gardens to prevent further perpetuation of the pest. Avoid the cutting of green leaves. If needed, they should be cut about 120 cm away from the stem in order to prevent successful inward movement of the grubs through the cut end. (ii) Trap Method: Red Palm Weevil - Trap Method - Video Coconut log traps: Setting up of attractant traps (mud pots) containing sugarcane molasses 2½ kg or toddy 2½ litres (or pineapple or sugarcane activated with yeast or molasses) + acetic acid 5 ml + yeast 5 g + longitudinally split tender coconut stem/logs of green petiole of leaves of 30 numbers in one acre to trap adult red palm weevils in large numbers. Incorporate any of the insecticide to each trap to kill the weevils trapped. Install pheromone trap @ one trap per ha Step 1: Specialized buckets with 3 of 4 holes are made, the bucket is wound with coconut fibre/ jute sack, so that the pests can enter. Step 2: The lure (Ferrolure +) is suspended inside the bucket and one lit of water is added along with 100g pineapple/ sugarcane, 2g yeast and 2g Carbaryl in the bucket. Step 3: The bait buckets are placed at sites in the farm, where infestation is seen most. Step 4: After a week the water is checked for the catch & re filled to prevent mosquitoes from breeding. Chemical Method: Red Palm Weevil - Chemical Method - Video In attacked palms, observe for the bore- holes and seal them except the top most one. Through the top most hole, pour 1% carbaryl (20gm/lt) or 0.2% trichlorphon @ one litre per palm, using a funnel. Then plug this hole also. If needed repeat after one week. When the pest infestation is through the crown, clean the crown and slowly pour the insecticidal suspension. In case of entry of weevil through the trunk, the hole in trunk may be plugged with cement / tar. A slanting hole is made with the aid of an auger and the insecticide solution is poured with funnel. Fill the crown and the axils of top most three leaves with a mixture of fine sand and neem seed powder or neem seed kernel powder (2:1) once in three months to prevent the attack of rhinoceros beetle damage in which the red palm weevil lays eggs. Root Feeding Select a fresh and live root Cut sharply at an angle and insert the root in the insecticidal solution containing monocrotophos 36 WSC 10 ml + water 10 ml in a 7 x 10 cm polythene bag. Secure the bag tightly to the root with a cotton thread. Twenty four hours later, check whether there is absorption. If there is no absorption select another root. These methods should not be resorted to as a routine practice and it is suggested only for cases of severe epidemic outbreak of the pest and when the survival of the tree is threatened. Top of page 4. LEAF EATING CATERPILLAR / BLACK HEADED CATERPILLAR: Opisina arenosella This causes severe damage to palms in coastal and back water areas and in certain internal packets of peninsular in India. The pest occurs round the year with the spike in population during summer (Mar-May). Black Headed Caterpiller - Adult Black Headed Caterpiller - Larva Symptoms of Damage Galleries of silk and frass seen on underside of leaves The coconut trees of all ages are attacked. Dried up patches on leaflets of the lower leaves, only three or four youngest leaves at the center of the grown remain green. Galleries of silk and frass on under side of leaflets. In case of severe infestation the whole plantations present a scorched appearance. Black Headed Caterpiller Symptoms - Video Identification of the Pest Larva: Caterpillar is greenish brown with dark brown head and prothorax, and a reddish mesothorax. It has brown stripes on the body. Pupa: It pupates inside the web itself in a thin silken cocoon Adult Moth: Greyish white in colour Female: with long antenna and three faint spots on the forewings Male: with fringed hairs in hind wings in apical and anal margin. Management Cultural Method: Black Headed Caterpiller Management (Mechanical/Cultural Method) - Video As a prophylactic measure, the first affected leaves may be cut and burnt during the beginning of the summer season. Biological Method: Black Headed Caterpiller Management (Biological Method) - Video Release the larval (Bethylid, Braconid and Ichneumonid) and pupal (Eulophid) on (chalcid) parasitoids and predators periodically from January, to check the build up of the pest during summer. Among the larval parasitoids, the Bethylid, Goniozus nephantidis, (Elasmus nephantidis (brown species) and Brachymeria nosatoi – KAU) is the most effective in controlling the pest. The optimum level of release is 1:8 of host-parasitoid ratio. The parasitoid should be released @ 3000/ha under the coconut trees when the pest is in the 2nd or 3rd instar larval stage. Parasitoid release trap may be used to release the parasitoid at the site of feeding. Parasitoids should not be released in the crown region since they will be killed by predators like spiders and reduviid bugs. This should be released only three weeks after chemical spray. Chemical Method: When infestation is very severe in young palms and if the biocontrol is not likely to be effective, spray the undersurface of the fronds with dichlorvos 0.02% (Dichlorovos 100EC), malathion 50 EC 0.05% (1 ml/lt), quinalphos 0.05% or phosalone 0.05%. Note: Application of the insecticides should be followed by liberation of larval and pupal parasites from the 21st day. Root feeding Select a fresh and live root Cut sharply at an angle and insert the root in the insecticidal solution containing Monocrotophos 36 WSC 10 ml + water 10 ml in a 7 x 10 cm polythene bag. Secure the bag tightly to the root with a cotton thread. Twenty four hours later, check whether there is absorption. If there is no absorption select another root. These methods should not be resorted to as a routine practice and it is suggested only for cases of severe epidemic outbreak of the pest and when the survival of the tree is threatened. Stem injection A Slanting hole is drill one meter above the ground level and 10 ml of Monocrotophos 36WSC is taken in a syringe and the needle is guided to the hole. After the insecticide has been absorbed the hole has to be plugged with clay mixed with copper oxy chloride. Top of page 5. SLUG CATERPILLAR: Parasa lepida and Contheyla rotunda Symptoms of Damage The larvae is the destructive stage if the pest. The young larvae feed on the lower epidermis of the leaf. As they mature, the whole leaf blade is eaten leaving the midribs. In heavy infestation, the larvae may defoliate the palm. Slug Caterpillar - Symptoms Identification of the Pest 1 Parasa lepida Egg: Flat shiny eggs on the under surface of leaves Larva: Greenish body with white lines and four rows of spiny scoli tipped red or black, which cause irritation and pain. Pupa: It pupates in a compact elliptical chocolate brown shell like cocoon, which is convex above and flat ventrally as stems. Cocoons are covered with irritating spines and hairs Adult: Adult moth has green wings with prominent dark patch at the base of each forewing. Management Chemical Method: Collect and destroy the immature stages of the insects by conducting study (or neem campaign) wherever possible and spray carbaryl 50 WP 2 gm/lit . Root feeding with monocrotophos 36 WSC @ 10 ml + 10 ml water at 45 days interval for 3 times for control of leaf caterpillar. Spray dichlorvos 76 WSC 2 ml / lit. Mechanical Method: Set up light traps to trap and collect adult moths. About 5 light traps may be installed per hectare. Identification of the Pest 2: Pest Name: C.rotunda Larva- Black or grey dorsally and dorso laterally. Adult - Small grayish brown moth. Forewings have slight dark in colour and series of black points. Hind wings are slightly darker. Management Chemical Method: Spray any one of the following Dichorvos 76 WSC 2 ml/lit Bacillus thuringiensis 2 g/lit, Triazophos 40 EC 5 ml Methyl demeton 25 EC 4 ml/lit Root feeding with monocrotophos 15 ml + 15 ml of water Top of page 6. COCONUT SKIPPER: Gangara thyrsis ; Suastus gremius Symptoms of Damage Leaflets tips are rolled Skipper larvae One half of the leaflets are cut and rolled into a case The rolled leaflets are dried Identification of the Pest Gangara thyrsis pupa Coconut skipper larvae Larva: Pale green with reddish markings. Body concealed in a covering of white waxy markings. Adult: Butterfly-brownish in colour. Chocolate brown wing with yellow spots. Management Chemical Method: Collect and destroy the immature stages of the insects by conducting study (or neem campaign) wherever possible and spray carbaryl 50 WP 2 gm/lit. Root feeding with monocrotophos 36 WSC @ 10 ml + 10 ml water at 45 days interval for 3 times for control of leaf caterpillar. Spray dichlorvos 76 WSC 2 ml / lit. Mechanical Method: Set up light traps to trap and collect adult moths. Top of page 7. COREID BUG: Paradasynus rostratus It occurs in coastal areas and high ranges in Kerala (Trivandrum, Wynad, Kasaragod). Symptoms of Damage Immature nut fall Crevices on the husk below the perianth The adults and nymphs feed by desapping the contents on button and developing nuts below the perianth region. The attacked buttons become deformed with characteristic crevices on the husk below the perianth with gum exudations and the tender nuts become barren. Severe damage leads to nut fall and malformation of mature nuts. Identification of Pest The adults are brown colored measuring 2 cm in size. The life cycle is completed in a month’s time. Management Chemical Method: Coreid Bug Management (Chemical Medhod ) - Video Collect and destroy the immature stages of the insects by conducting study (or neem campaign) wherever possible and spray carbaryl 50 WP 2 gm/lit. Root feeding with monocrotophos 36 WSC @ 10 ml + 10 ml water at 45 days interval for 3 times for control of leaf caterpillar. Apply 0.1% carbaryl on the newly opened inflorescence after the receptive phase of the female flowers and spray the entire crown excluding the leaves and older bunches (at 45 days interval). Destruction of pollinating insects can be avoided if spraying is done in afternoon hours. Spray dichlorvos 76 WSC 2 ml / lit. Mechanical Method: Set up light traps to trap and collect adult moths. Top of page 8. BAG WORM: Manatha albipes Symptoms of Damage Small and irregular hole on the leaves. Silken spin stick strand bags below the leaf. Symptoms of Bag Worm Bag Worm Larva Identification of the Pest Larva: Inside the conical bags constructed with silk and thread Management Chemical Method: Collect and destroy the immature stages of the wherever possible and spray carbary 50 WP 2 gm/lit. Root feeding with monocrotophos 36 WSC @ 10 ml + 10 ml water at 45 days interval for 3 times for control of leaf caterpillar. Spray dichlorvas 76 WSC 2 ml / lit. Mechanical Method: Set up light traps to trap and collect adult moths. Top of page 9. WHITE GRUB/ COCKCHAFER BEETLE: Leucopholis coneophora These cream colored grubs are found in abundance in sandy loam tracts of Kerala and Karnataka, especially in Sep – Oct and the beetles emerge in May-June. Symptoms of Damage In nursery the grubs feet the tender roots and tunnel into the bole of the collar region resulting in drying and yellowing In older plantations infestations results in yellowing of leaves, premature nut shedding, delayed flowering, retardation in growth and yield decline. White grubs are exposed when base of tree dug tuber crops grown as intercrops are also affected. Identification of the Pest Adult: Brown coloured beetle with striated wings not covering the abdomen fully Egg: Oval in shape and creamy white in color when freshly laid. Prior to hatching they turn to dirty white. Larvae: Curved, fleshy and wrinkled. They are creamy white in color with brown head. Management Cultural method: Repeated ploughing once a week for 4 to 5 times after first rains in summer reduce the pest population by exposing the pest to predation by birds and other animals. Plant neem twigs with leaves in coconut gardens after rain to attract and kill adult beetles Plough or dig the infested soil synchronizing with pre-monsoon showers. Physical Method: Collect and destroy the adult beetles attracted to trees like neem, Ailanthus and Acasia on the receipt of monsoon showers (in the evening). Mechanical Method: Set up light trap @ 1 / ha or bonfire Chemical Method: Soil application - Malathion 5 D 25 kg/ ha at the time of planting (Treat the soil with phorate 10G @ 100 g/palm or drench with chlorpyrifos 0.04% suspension. The treatment should be given twice, first during April-May after the receipt of pre-monsoon showers and second during the month of September - Recommended by KAU). Top of page 10. TERMITE: Odontotermes obesus Symptoms of Damage Termite Symptoms - Soil runway made at the base of the trunk Termites are likely to cause damage to transplanted seedlings particularly in the earlier stage. (wilting of seedlings) Base of trunks plastered with runways made of soil and fibers Identification of the Pest Adults: Cream coloured, tiny insects resembling ants with dark coloured head Management Cultural Method: Locate termite mounds in or near the coconut nursery or garden and destroy. Adoption of field sanitation by disposal of organic matter in nursery soil and covering germinating nuts with a layer of river sand. Chemical Method: Termite Control - Apply calcium at base of the trunk Spray Copper Sulphate 1% or Cashew Nut Shell oil 80% or spray Chlorpyriphos @ 3ml/lit of water, Neem Oil 5% or NSKE 20% to preserve plaited coconut leaves from the termite attack. Apply calcium at the base of the trunk for control of termite attack. Swabbing with neem oil 5% once on the base and upto 2 m height of the trunk for effective control. Top of page 11. LACEWING BUG: Stephanitis typicus Symptoms of Damage Lacewing Bug - Symptoms White spots on the upper surface of the leaves Lace bug sucks sap from coconut foliage; it acts as a vector in transmission of Phytoplasma from root (wilt) affected palms to healthy palm. Identification of the Pest Lacewing Bug - Identification Nymph: White with dark patches. Adults: White coloured adults with netted venation on wing. Management Cultural Method: Remove leaflets harboring these insects and destroy them. Chemical Method: Spray any one of the following; Malathion 50 EC @ 2 ml/lt Dimethoate 30 EC @1 ml/lt Methyl demeton 25 EC @1 ml/lt Phosphamidon 40 SL @1.25 ml/lt Monocrotophos 36 WSC @1 ml/lt Methomyl 25 EC @2 ml/lit 3% Neem oil Top of page 12. SCALE INSECT: Aspidiotus destructor Symptoms of Damage: It occurs more in summer. Scale insects affects on leaves and nuts of coconut palms. A severe infestation, scale forms a continuous crust over flower spikes, young nuts and lower surface of leaves. Symptoms of Scale Insect On leaves, A. destructor causes scales with yellow spots developing where the crawlers have settled and grown into adults. Entire leaves may turn yellow to brown and fall. Sooty mould may develop. The bright yellow colour of affected coconut palms is clearly visible from a great distance. In extreme cases, the leaves dry out, entire fronds drop off and the crown dies. Heavy infestation results in stunting of new leaves, reduction of crop yield or complete crop failure. Infested coconut fronds exhibit yellow areas on the upper surface, formed by numerous yellow spots each marking the position of the coconut scale on the under surface. Identification of the Pest Scale colonies Scale insect on leaf Egg: hatching the young scales on the undersides of the leaves. Nymph: Covered with circular waxy secretion Adult: The scale is bright yellow and round or reddish (female) and oval (male) covered with semitransparent grayish white flat scale. Females are always wingless and remain under their scale their entire life. Adult males have one pair of membranous wings, move about actively in search of females and do not feed during adult stage. Management Chemical Method: Spray Fish Oil Rosin Soap (FORS) 2.5% or spray Fenthion / Malathion. A second round is given after 20 days. Pluck mature nuts and spray monocrotophos 36 WSC @ 2 ml/ha. (or 1ml/ha) Do not harvest nuts for 45 days after spraying. Biological Method: Release of predatory Coccinellids, Chilocorus nigritius is found to be effective. Top of page 13. MEALY BUG: Pseudococcus longispinus Symptoms of Damage Mealy bugs colonize on all tender plant parts like bases of spear leaf, spadix and inflorescence and beneath the perianth of the nut. Mealy Bug - Symptoms & Damage Mealy bugs infest the unopened heartleaf and inflorescence. It feed plant sup. Leaves are yellowing and dry up. As a result, the leaves become highly stunted, suppressed, deformed and present a crinkled appearance. It is often confused with the leaf rot symptoms. The affected inflorescences are malformed and do not open. Even if they open, they do not bear nuts. Button mealy bugs colonize under the perianth lobes of tender nuts. Infested nuts harbouring gravid mealy bugs remain on the spadix, which serve as inoculum for further spread. Identification of the pest Nymph Nymphs are flat, oval and yellow. Older nymphs of some species are covered with fluffy, white wax. Adult: The males are yellowish in color whereas the females are longer and narrow and white in color. Management Cultural Method: Remove leaflets harbouring these insects and destroy them. Chemical Method: Spray any one of the following; Malathion 50 EC @ 2 ml/lt Dimethoate 30 EC @1 ml/lt Methyl demeton 25 EC @1 ml/lt Phosphamidon 40 SL @1.25 ml/lt Monocrotophos 36 WSC @1 ml/lt (in seedling stage 0.05%) Methomyl 25 EC @2 ml/lit 3% Neem oil Top of page 14. PALM CIVET Vivera zibatha Indian civets have large bodies that are gray or brown in color. Body length is about 34 inches with a tail length of 13 inches. They have black spots on the body as well as black and white stripes on the sides of the neck. In most cases there are two white stripes and three black stripes. The tail has a number of black rings around it. Limbs are black and the forefeet contain lobes of skin on the third and fourth digit that protect the retractile claws. Males are slightly larger than females. Palm Civet Symptoms of Palm Civet Management Chemical Method: Poison baiting with ripe banana fruit sandwiched with 0.5 g carbofuran 3 G granules. Top of page 15. RAT: Rattus rattus wroughtoni Symptoms of Damage Rats damage tender nuts by forming characteristic holes. Shed nuts can be seen at the base of the palm. Symptoms of Rat Damage Management Mechanical Method: Tree banding with inverted iron cones (Entry of rats on to the trunk can be prevented by fixing mechanical barriers upto 2m height from ground level using 40cm sized G.I. sheets) or Prosophis thorns. Use rat traps. Rat Trap - Mechanical Medhod Chemical Method: Rat Management (Chemical Medhod) - Video Baiting with bromodialone 0.005% at 10 g/tree at crown region twice at an interval of 12 days. Fumigate the hiding places using Aluminium phosphide tablets. Poison baits prepared by mixing 95 parts raw rice, three parts coconut oil and two parts zinc phosphide are placed in active burrows. Top of page 16. NUT BORER: Cyclodes omma Symptom of Damage The caterpillar bores into the developing buttons at perianth portion causing nut drop. Nut borer - Video Management Hand picking and destroying Spray 0.1% Carbaryl Top of page 17. NEMATODES Radopholus similis: Among nematodes, Radopholus similis or the burrowing nematode damage the roots of coconut. Burrowing nematode populations survive under field conditions for six months in moist soil (27 to 360C) and one month in dry soil (29 to 39 0C), whereas it survives for 15 months in moist soil (25.5 to 28.50C) and 3 months in dry soil (27 to 310C) under greenhouse conditions. The nematode survives in roots of stumps of felled coconut palms up to six months. In coconut plantations in Kerala, seedlings are raised by sowing seednuts in the interspaces of coconut palms. The burrowing nematode is widely prevalent in most of the nurseries in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. One – year – old coconut seedlings raised in suh infested nurseries harbor large populations of the burrowing nematode within roots both internal and external of the husks. These infested seedlings when distributed to distant places through government as well as private agencies for planting help n the dissemination of the nematode. Symptoms of Damage The nematode infested coconut palms exhibit general decline, yellowing, button shedding, and reduction in leaf size. The symptoms on roots are more specific. Elongated orange colour lesions are seen on tender and semi hard roots. Consequent to nematode parasitization and multiplication these lesions enlarge and coalesce to cause extensive rotting of roots. Tender roots on heavy infestation become spongy in texture. Management Biological Method: Application of cowdung, farmyard manure, oil cakes and green manure to the basins. Crotolaria juncea may be cultivated in the basin and interspaces and used as green manure. Incorporate leaves and tender stem of Crotolaria juncea, Pueraria javanica and Glyricidia maculate into the soil in Sep-Oct. Chemical Method: This can be controlled with application of phorate 10G @ 100 g/palm/twice a year. That is during May-June and Sep- Oct. Cultural Method: Use of less susceptible, tolerant cultivars or hybrids of coconut and intercrops in infested areas. Avoid use of banana as a shade crops in coconut nurseries Top of page Disease Management 1. Bud Rot: Phytophthora palmivora 2. Tanjore Wilt (or) Basal stem end rot: Ganoderma lucidum 3. Root (wilt) Disease: unknown etiology 4. Leaf rot disease 5. Grey Leaf Spot: Pestalotiopsis palmarum 6. Stem bleeding disease 7. Lleaf blight: Lasiodiplodia theobromae 8. Crown chocking Top of page 1. BUD ROT: Phytophthora palmivora Symptoms of Damage Palms of all age are liable to be attacked but normally young palms are more susceptible, particularly during monsoon when the temperature is low and humidity is very high. In seedlings, the spear leaf turns pale and comes off with a gentle pull. BUD ROT: Symptoms of Damage The earlier symptom is the yellowing of one or two younger leaves. Black spots appear on spindle leaves. Basal tissues of the leaf rots quickly and can be easily separated from the crown. In the later stages the spindle withers and drops down. The tender leaf base and soft tissues of the crown will rot into a slimy mass of decayed material emitting foul smell. Ultimately the entire crown falls down and the palm dies BUD ROT: Symptoms in Adult Palm In adult palms, the first visible symptom is the colour change of the spear, which becomes pale and breaks at the base and hangs down. The rotting slowly progresses downwards, finally affecting the meristem and killing the palms. This is accompanied by drooping of successive leaves. Even then, nuts that are retained on the palm may grow to maturity. Management Chemical Method: Remove all the affected tissue of the crown region and crown drenching with Copper oxychloride 0.25%. (Apply Bordeaux paste and protect it from rain till normal shoot emerges. (Dissolve 100 gm of copper sulphate and 100 gm of quick lime each in 500ml. water separately and mix to form 1 litre of Bordeaux paste). Spray 0.25% Copper oxychloride on the crown of the neighbouring palms as a prophylactic measure before the onset of monsoon. (Spray 1% Bordeaux mixture on spindle leaves and crown of disease affected as well as neighbouring palms, as a prophylactic measure. Palms that are sensitive (Dwarf palms) to copper containing fungicides can be protected by mancozeb. Small, perforated sachets containing 2 g of mancozeb may be tied to the top of leaf axil. When it rains, a small quantity of the fungicide is released from the sachets to the leaf base, thus protecting the palm. The infected tissues from the crown region should be removed and dressed with Bordeaux paste sprayed with 1% Bordeaux mixture as pre-monsoon spray (May and September). Leaf axil filling with Sevidol 8G, 25 g mixed with 200g sand is recommended to red palm weevil infestation of affected palms. Spray with Copper oxychloride 0.25% after the onset of Monsoon. Cultural Method: Provide adequate drainage in gardens. Adopt proper spacing and avoid over crowding in bud rot prone gardens. Top of page | Disease Management 2. TANJORE WILT / BASAL STEM END ROT; Ganoderma Wilt This disease first appeared in the coastal areas of Thanjavur district of TamilNadu after cyclones of 1952 and 1955 and hence the names Thanjavur wilt. In Tamil Nadu it is prevalent in Thanjavur and Chengulpet districts. In Karnataka it is found in Maidan areas. This disease is of recent occurrence in many parts of Kerala, especially in the districts of Palakkad, Malappuram, Thrissur, Kollam, Thiruvananthapuram and Wayanad. Causal Organism: Ganoderma lucidem and Ganoderma applanatum. Symptoms of Damage Stem bleeding Basal stem rot - bracket formation Drooping of leaves Big fructification TANJORE WILT / BASAL STEM END ROT: Symptoms of damage Initial symptoms of Thanjavur wilt (Ganoderma wilt) start with withering, yellowing and drooping of the outer whorl of leaves. This is followed by exudation of reddish brown liquid through cracks at the base of the trunk and oozing spread upward. The tissues on the bleeding spots are soft to touch. Decaying of tissues at bleeding point and rotting of the basal portion of the stem The bark turns brittle and often gets peeled off in flakes, leaving open cracks and crevices. The internal tissues are discoloured and disintegrated, emitting a bad smell. Bracket formation at the base of the trunk. Ganoderma appears at the base of the trunk. Ultimately the palm dies off Management Cultural Method: Remove and destroy all affected palms. Green manure crops must be raised and ploughed in-situ at the time of flowering. Biological Method: Apply Pseudomonas fluorescens (Pf1) @ 200g/palm + Trichoderma viride @ 200g/palm/year. Apply 200g Phosphobacter and 200 g Azotobactor mixed with 50kg of FYM/palm. Apply FYM 50kg + neem cake 5 Kg once in 6 months along with fertilizers. Chemical Method: Isolation of trench around the tree, 4 feet away from the base of the trunk. Apply Sulphur dust inside the trench. The bleeding patches in the stem may be chiseled and protected with tridemorph (5% calxin) and subsequently with hot coal tar. Aureofungin-sol 2 g +1 g Copper Sulphate in 100ml water or 2 ml of Tridemorph in 100 ml water applied as root feeding. (The active absorbing root of pencil thickness must be selected and a slanting and a slanting cut is made. The solution to be taken in a polythene bag or bottle and the cut end of the root should be dipped in the solution). Trunk injection / root feeding with Calixin 3 ml/tree. Forty litres of 1% Bordeaux mixture should be applied as soil drench around the trunk in a radius of 1.5m. Top of page | Disease Management 3. ROOT WILT or KERALA WILT Causal Organism: Phytoplasma. The disease is transmitted by lace bug Stephanitis typica and the plant hopper Proutista moesta. Symptoms of Damage Tapering of terminal portion of the trunk. Reduction of leaf size Abnormal bending or Ribbing of leaf lets termed as flaccidity. Flowering is delayed and also yield is considerably reduced. Flaccidity and bending of leaf lets Necrosis Severely affected palm ROOT WILT or KERALA WILT: Symptoms of damage The characteristic symptom is the flaccidity of leaflets. This is the earliest visual symptom. In the beginning yellowing is restricted from the leaf tips to the middle of the leaves, necrosis of leaflets and deterioration and decay of root system are other salient features of the disease. The leaflets curve inwardly to produce ribbing so that the whole frond develops a cup like appearance. Abnormal shedding of buttons and immature nuts are also noticed. Hot Spot Areas: Kottayam, Alapuzha, Pathanamthitta and Kollam districts of Kerala. Coconut root (wilt) is a non-lethal debilitating disease and the affected palms survive for a long period giving a reasonably good yield. The root (wilt) affected palms are susceptible to diseases like leaf rot and pests like rhinoceros beetle and red palm weevil. So there is a chance of confusing the pests and disease symptom with the root (wilt) disease. Negligence on the management aspects aggravates the malady. Efficient management of palms suspected to be affected by coconut root (wilt) disease demands control of all pests and diseases and imparting natural resistance and health to the palms through proper manuring and agronomic practices. Management Cultural Method: Cut and remove disease advanced, uneconomical palms yielding less than 10 nuts per palm per year Grow green manure crops - cowpea, sunhemp (Crotalaria juncea), Mimosa invisa, Calapagonium mucanoides, Pueraria phaseoloides etc. may be sown in coconut basins during April-May and incorporated during September-October. Irrigate coconut palms with at least 250 litre water in a week. Adopt suitable inter/mixed cropping in coconut gardens. Provide adequate drainage facilities. Apply fertilizers for coconut palms in average management at the rate of 1.3 kg urea, 2.00 kg super phosphate and 3.5 kg potash (MOP) / palm / year in the form of urea, rock phosphate and muriate of potash, respectively. Magnesium may be supplied @ 500 g MgO per palm per year in (sandy soil) area. The cheapest source of MgO is magnesite (MgCO3). The magnesium in magnesite is acid soluble. Hence it may be preferred in acid soils. To manage the insect vectors treat the top two leaf axils with insecticide preparation. This can be prepared by mixing phorate 10 G -20 g with 200 g sand or powered neem cake 250g mix with equal quantity of sand around the base of the spindle. Water Management (Irrigated) of Root Wilt affected Garden: Age of Palm Basin Drip Perfo/Sprinkler (HDMSCS) 1-2 years old 25-30litres once in 2 days 10 lit per day, two emitters 50 cm from base - 3-4 years old 75-80 litres once in 4 days 20lit per day, 3 emitters 75 cm from base - Adult Palm 200-250 litres once in 4 days 30-35 lit per day, 4 emitters 1 m away (in laterite); 6 emitters (literal sandy soil) Pit size for emitters – 25cm3 Irrigate to a depth of 20 mm once in 4 days Biological Method: In addition to the above, apply 50 kg FYM or green manure and 5 kg of neem cake / palm / year. Growing green manure crops like sunn hemp, sesbania, cowpea and calapagonium in the coconut basin and their incorporation in situ is beneficial as the practice reduces the intensity of the root (wilt) and increases the nut yield. The ideal green manure crops for the sandy and alluvial soils are cowpea and sesbania, respectively. Apply manures in 10 cm deep circular basins at a radius of 2 m from the bole of the palm. 4. LEAF ROT DISEASE Symptoms of Damage: Leaf rot disease commonly occurs on coconut palms already affected by root wilt disease especially in 8 southern districts of Kerala, namely Thiruvananthpurma, Kollam, Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki and Thrissur, besides Theni , Tirunelveli, Coimbatore and Kanyakumari districts of Tamil Nadu. The first symptom is the appearance of water-soaked brown lesions in the spear leaves of root-wilt affected palms. Gradually these spots enlarge and coalesce resulting in extensive rotting. As the leaf unfurls the rotten portions of the lamina dry and get blown off in wind, giving a 'fan' shape to the leaves. Some times, the symptom becomes very acute and the spear fails to unfurl. Brown colour spots - enlarge resulting in rotting Fan like apperance of leaves Management Physical Method: Remove the rotten portions from the spear and the two adjacent leaves. Chemical Method: Pour fungicide solution of Hexaconazol (Contaf 5E) - 2ml or Mancozeb (Indifil M45) - 3g in 300ml water per palm to the base of spindle leaf. 2-3 rounds of spraying are sufficient in case of mild infection. Spray crowns and leaves with 1% Bordeaux mixture or 0.5% copper oxychloride formulations or 0.4% mancozeb in January, April-May and September. While spraying, care has to be taken to spray the spindle leaf. Top of page | Disease Management 5. GREY LEAF SPOT: Pestalosia palmivora Symptoms of Damage Minute yellow spots encircled by grayish bands appear on the surface of mature leaves of the outer whorl. Later they become grayish white surrounded by yellow halo. These spots coalesce into irregular necrotic patches. Complete drying and shriveling of the leaf blade are common when the infection is severe. Minute yellow spots encircled by grayish bands GREY LEAF SPOT: Pestalosia palmivora Management Physical Method: Removal of the older 2-3 disease affected leaves. Chemical Method:Spraying the foliage with 0.25% Copper oxychloride will check the spread of the disease. Remove severely affected older leaves and burn. Spray the trees with 1% Bordeaux mixture or propiconazole 0.3%. Top of page | Disease Management 6. STEM BLEEDING DISEASE: Thielaviopsis paradoxa The progress of the disease is faster during July to November. Symptoms of Damage Stem Bleeding is characterized by the exudation of a dark reddish brown liquid from the longitudinal cracks in the bark and wounds on the stem trickling down for a distance of several inches to several feet. Exudation of reddish-brown liquid through cracks on a coconut trunk The lesions spread upwards as the disease progresses. The liquid oozing out dries up and turns black. The tissues below the lesions become rotten and turn yellow first and later black. In advanced cases, the interior of affected trunks are hollow due to decay of interior tissues. As a result of extensive damage in the stem tissue, the outer whorl of the leaves turn yellow, dry and shed prematurely. The production of bunches is affected adversely. Nut fall is also notices. Causal Organism The fungus, Thielaviopsis paradoxa is the causal agent of the disease. Progress of the disease was faster during July to November. Increase in growth cracks on the trunk, severe summer followed by sudden wetting, imbalanced nutrition, excessive salinity etc aggravates the disease. The fungus has also been found sometimes to attack leaves, petioles and nuts. Management Chemical Method: Chisel out completely the affected tissues and paint the wound with tridemorph 5% or Bordeaux paste. Apply coal tar after 1-2 days on the treated portion. Burn off chiseled pieces. To avoid spread of disease on to upper portion of trunk Root feed with tridemorph (5% Calixin) 5ml in 100 ml water, thrice a year during April-May, September-October and January-February to prevent further spread of lesions. Cultural Method: Avoid any mechanical injury to trunk. Along with 50 kg FYM, apply 5kg neem cake containing the antagonistic fungi, Trichoderma @ 200g/palm/yearculture to the basin during September. Provide adequate irrigation during summer and drainage during rainy season along with recommended fertilizer. Top of page | Disease Management 7. LEAF BLIGHT (LLB) Lasiodiplodia theobromae The leaf blight disease of coconut caused by the fungus Lasiodiplodia (Botryodiplodia) theobromae (Pat.) Griffon and Maubl. is an emerging serious problem in Pollachi tract of Tamil Nadu. At present, the disease is spreading at a faster rate in Coimbatore, Erode, Dindigul, Tirunelveli, Kanyakumari and other districts of Tamil Nadu and causing 10 – 25 per cent yield loss. Symptoms Leaf blight causes serious damage in seedlings and adult palms. The pathogen causes damage in leaf and nuts. Generally the adult leaves in the lower 3 to 4 whorls are affected. The affected leaflets start drying from the tip downwards and exhibit a charred or burnt appearance. Dark grey to brown lesions with wavy to undulated margins appear from the apex of the nuts. The fungus entered in to the kernel through mesocarp, resulting in a decay of the endosperm. The affected nuts were desiccated, shrunk, deformed and dropped prematurely and resulting in nut yield loss up to 10 to 25%. The incidence was noticed through out the year. Maximum incidence was observed during summer months. Spores and the resting structures on the affected portion of the leaves served as inoculum for further spread through wind. Control measures: Following integrated approaches are recommended Cultural method: Remove and burn the severely affected leaves to avoid further spread. Biological method: Application of 200g Pseudomonas fluorescens along with 50 kgs of FYM+5 kgs of Neemcake/palm/yr. Chemical method: Spray 1.0 per cent Bordeaux mixture or 0.25 per cent Copper oxychloride (2 times at 45 days interval during summer months). Root feeding of Carbendazim 2 g or Hexaconazole/ Tridemorph 2 ml + 100 ml water (3 times at 3 months interval) Application of an additional quantity of 2 kgs of MOP. Yellow spots on leaves encircled by greyish on leaflets, later become grayish white a. Preparation of 1% Bordeaux mixture A quantity of 400 g of copper sulphate should be dissolved in 20 litres of water and 400 g of lime in another 20 litres of water separately. The copper sulphate solution should be added to the lime solution constantly stirring the mixture. Earthen or wooden vessels alone should be used and metallic containers should not be used. To find out whether the mixture is in correct proportion, a polished knife should be dipped in the mixture for one minute and taken out. If there is reddish brown deposit of copper, additional quantity of lime should be added till there is no deposit in the knife. b. Preparation of Bordeaux paste Take 200 g of Copper sulphate and dissolve it in one litre of water and 200 g of lime in one litre of water separately. Both are mixed simultaneously in a third vessel and the resultant mixture can be used as a paste. Top of page | Disease Management 8. CROWN CHOCKING Crown choking disorder is commonly observed in Assam and West Bengal. Symptoms of Damage Characterized by emergence of shorter leaves with fascinated and crinkled leaves. The leaflets show severe tip necrosis and fail to unfurl. In many cases, it gives a choked appearance to the frond. Ultimately the affected palm dies. Control measures Application of 50 g Borax at half-yearly intervals (Feb-Mar and Sept-Oct) along with recommended fertilizer in the basins will control the disease when it is in the early stage. In root wilt affected areas a dosage of 200gm - 300gm per palm per year is recommended. Top of page | Disease Management Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Farm Implements HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Farm Implements 1. Coconut Tree Climber 2. Coconut Dehusker 3. Coconut Dehusking Machine 4. Coconut Deshelling Machine 5. Coconut Paring Machine 6. Coconut Grinding Machine 7. Coconut Milk Extracting Machine 8. Copra Oil Press 9. Agricultural Waste Fired Mechanical Dryer 10. Power Tiller Operated Heavy Duty Auger Digger 11. Briquetting Machine 12. Coir Pith Applicator 13. Compost Pelletizer 14. Sprayer For Coconut Trees 15. Production of Particle Board From Coirpith 16. TNAU Power Weeder with Rotary and Tined Attachments 17. Coconut Snowball Tender Coconut Machine: CPCRI 18. Power Operated Coconut Dehusker 19. Manually Operated Coconut Splitting Machine 20. Cocotap 1. Coconut Climber Special Features: Useful for climbing coconut trees for harvesting nuts, cleaning and other operations. Any unskilled person including ladies can climb the coconut trees using this unit. Requires 1.5 minutes to climb a tree of 30 to 40 ft height. Cost of the Unit: Rs.2,000/- Capacity: 50 to 60 trees/day Cost of Operation: Rs.1.50/tree Manufacturer: TNAU, Coimbatore Top of page 2. Coconut Dehusker Kerala Agricultural University has developed a very simple and effective tool for easy dehusking of coconuts. It takes about 8 to 12 seconds for dehusking a nut depending on the type and maturity. The tool is light, very simple to use and handy and can be used both indoors and outdoors. Top of page 3. Coconut Dehusking Machine CoCoMaN coconut dehusking machine model COM11 peels off the coconut husk from coconut fruit to obtain dehusked coconut fruit via hydraulically controlled dehusking devices. An operator is required to handle the machine during the dehusking process. Manufactured by: Method Machine Works, a Malaysia-based privated limited. Company is one of the best known manufacturer and exporter of industrial machineries and equipments. Address: Suite, 26.3, Menara IMC, No. 8, Jalan Sultan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, WP Kuala Lumpur 50250 Malaysia. www.indiamart.com/methodmachine/products.html Top of page 4. Coconut Deshelling Machine This machine detaches the hard coconut shell from dehusked coconut fruit via a rotating disc cutter. An operator is required to hold the coconut fruit during the deshelling process. It comes with 1 or 2 deshelling stations. Manufactured by: Method Machine Works, a Malaysia-based privated limited. Company is one of the best known manufacturer and exporter of industrial machineries and equipments. Address: Suite, 26.3, Menara IMC, No. 8, Jalan Sultan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, WP Kuala Lumpur 50250 Malaysia. www.indiamart.com/methodmachine/products.html Top of page 5. Coconut Paring Machine This machine scalps off the soft and brownish skin, or testa, of deshelled coconut flesh. An operator is required to feed the pieces of deshelled coconut flesh into the machine during the paring process. Manufactured by: Method Machine Works, a Malaysia-based privated limited. Company is one of the best known manufacturer and exporter of industrial machineries and equipments. Address: Suite, 26.3, Menara IMC, No. 8, Jalan Sultan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, WP Kuala Lumpur 50250 Malaysia. www.indiamart.com/methodmachine/products.html Top of page 6. Coconut Grinding Machine This machine grinds deshelled coconut flesh into fine desiccated coconut. An operator is required to feed the pieces of deshelled coconut flesh into the machine during the grinding process. It can also be used to grind copra (dried coconut) to fine ground copra flakes. Manufactured by: Method Machine Works, a Malaysia-based privated limited. Company is one of the best known manufacturer and exporter of industrial machineries and equipments. Address: Suite, 26.3, Menara IMC, No. 8, Jalan Sultan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, WP Kuala Lumpur 50250 Malaysia. www.indiamart.com/methodmachine/products.html Top of page 7. Coconut Milk Extracting Machine This machine automatically sequeezes the fine desiccated coconut via a rotating screw to obtain coconut milk. Manufactured by: Method Machine Works, a Malaysia-based privated limited. Company is one of the best known manufacturer and exporter of industrial machineries and equipments. Address: Suite, 26.3, Menara IMC, No. 8, Jalan Sultan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, WP Kuala Lumpur 50250 Malaysia. www.indiamart.com/methodmachine/products.html Top of page 8. Copra Oil Press This range of machines are used to compress the fine ground copra flakes to obtain copra oil. Some models have pressing & filtering mechanisms intergrated & also equipped with heaters to improve the output efficiency. It can also be used for oil extraction for peanut, beans, rape seeds, cotton seeds, sesame seeds, olive, sunflower seeds etc. Manufactured by: Method Machine Works, a Malaysia-based privated limited. Company is one of the best known manufacturer and exporter of industrial machineries and equipments. Address: Suite, 26.3, Menara IMC, No. 8, Jalan Sultan Ismail, Kuala Lumpur, WP Kuala Lumpur 50250 Malaysia. www.indiamart.com/methodmachine/products.html Top of page 9. Agricultural Waste Fired Mechanical Dryer Function: To burn agricultural wastes and to produce hot air. Specification: (a) Overall Dimension: 3100 x 890 x 200mm (b) Capacity: 1 tonne/day (c) Power Required: 2 hp Electric Motor General Information: This unit consists of an agricultural waste fuelled furnace, blower and rectangular metal bin for keeping the grains. The fire tube type furnace can generate heat by burning any agricultural waste. The unit can produce hot air upto 80ºC by suitably mixing the hot air with ambient air through an adjustable butterfly valve. Through a flexible duct, the hot air is supplied to the drying bin. Cost of the Unit: Rs.1,00,000/- Cost of operation: Rs.20/h Salient Features: All types of agricultural wastes and crop residues can be used as fuel. Suitable for drying pods, grains, coconut kernel, etc. Air temperature and flow rate can be adjusted and controlled. Manufacturer: TNAU, Coimbatore Top of page 10. Power Tiller Operated Heavy Duty Auger Digger Function: To dig holes for planting tree saplings Specification: i. Type: Screw auger type ii. Power requirement: 8 to 10 hp power tiller iii. Overall dimensions: 400 x 635 x 1635 mm iv. Weight: 50 kg v. Capacity: 25 -30 holes per hour General Information: It consists of a spiral auger of 225 mm dia and 100 mm pitch actuated by a rack and pinion arrangement. The drive for the circular motion of the auger is effected through belt pulley and bevel gear transmission with a ratio of 1:1 from the engine pulley of the power tiller directly. The entire assembly is mounted on a rectangular frame with necessary bearings and fixtures. The hand wheel provided at the side of the unit can be effectively used for the depth control. For increased size of holes, replaceable type larger diameter auger bits of 250, 275 and 300 mm can be used. A balancing frame attached to the hitch bracket assembly in the rear and a support wheel fitted in the front portion of the unit counter the down suction offered by the auger while digging, ensure easy movement in the field, reduction of drudgery and easy manoeurvability. Cost of the Unit: Rs. 20,000/- Salient features: Results in 16.0 and 91.0 per cent saving in cost and time when compared to manual digging of holes It can reach spots where tractor entry and manoeurvability are difficult Manufacturer: TNAU, Coimbatore Top of page 11. Briquetting Machine Function: To make briquettes from coir pith. Specification: (a) Overall dimension: 765 x 350 x 990 mm (b) Capacity: 125 kg/h (c) Power required: 5 hp Electric Motor General Information: The machine consists of a feed hopper, an over hanging screw shaft, a barrel housing and an extruder die pipe. The screw shaft is mounted at one end by ball bearings and the other end is over hanging freely. The barrel assembly has been housed over the screw shaft and mounted on a stand. The free end of the screw shaft is tapered to a length of 30 cm and housed inside an extruder pipe of same length. The screw shaft is coupled directly to a reduction gear unit (10:1) and is driven by a 5 hp electric motor. Fibre free coir pith and cowdung are mixed at 6:1 ratio with required quantity of water so that it will form briquettes during operation. Cost of the Unit: Rs.30,000/- Cost of operation: Rs.20/h Salient features: Continuous horizontal type extrusion machine. Briquettes are formed by compression. Produces hollow briquettes with a calorific value of 3000 K.cal/kg. Manufacturer: TNAU, Coimbatore Top of page 12. Coir Pith Applicator Function: For subsoil mulching. Specification: i. Type: Tractor operated, built around the chisel plough ii. Power requirement: 35 to 45 hp tractor iii. Overall dimensions: 840 x 1000 x 12390 mm iv. Weight: 50 kg v. Capacity: 0.5 ha per day General Information: The subsoil coir pith mulching machine was built around chisel plough which formed the tool for loosening the soil and also provided a frame for mounting the attachment. Coir pith was fed from a hopper through a rotary vane type feeding device and was funneled into the furrow bottom. A pair of furrow opener wings hold the furrow opener behind the chisel plough for placement of the subsoil mulch. The rotary vane type metering device was manually operated and ensured uniform placement of coir pith inside the furrow. The unit was found to have a draft of 500 kg under red soil conditions and 600 kg under black soil conditions. Cost of the Unit: Rs. 8,500/- Salient Features: The uniformity of feed rate was found to be at 90% Manufacturer: TNAU, Coimbatore Top of page 13. Compost Pelletizer Function: To make pellets from compost. Specification: (a) Overall dimension: 1000 x 900 x 900 mm (b) Capacity: 100 kg/h (c) Power required: 5 hp Electric Motor General Information: The compost mixture is fed into the barrel housing the screw auger. The screw conveys the compost against the die assembly and extrude it as pellets. A rotating knife cuts the pellets into small pieces. The pellets are passed over an oscillating tray and collected at the bottom as globules. Cost of the Unit: Rs.25,000/- Cost of Operation: Rs.15/h Salient Features: Pellets of uniform size can be obtained. Pellets can be easily distributed in the field as manure. More suitable for soil application at specific locations. Manufacturer: TNAU, Coimbatore Top of page 14. Sprayer For Coconut Trees Function: To spray chemicals in coconut trees and orchards Specification: i. Type: Mounted implement ii. Power requirement: 35 hp tractor iii. Overall dimensions: 65 x 65 x 1950 mm iv. Weight: 200 kg v. Capacity: 35 trees per hour General Information: The unit has a telescopic (62 and 37 mm) G.I. pipes which can extend from 9 m to 14 m height by winding a cable. The telescopic G.I. pipes are mounted on a ‘L’ angle frame work hitched to the tractor through the three point linkage connection. At the base of the frame, a 200 lit capacity chemical tank is mounted. The commercially available ASPEE triplex reciprocating pump is mounted on a base plate near the PTO shaft of the tractor. At the top of the 37 mm G.I. pipe, two spray guns with nozzles for cone or jet spray are hinged so that they can be moved up and down by ropes from the ground level. In addition the spray guns can be rotated about the vertical axis of the telescopic pipe arrangement. These features of the sprayer ensure that the entire canopy area of the tree is easily sprayed. Cost of the Unit: Rs. 45,000/- Salient Features: The total height of spray is 55 feet. For easy transport, the unit can be kept in a horizontal position by folding the frame with telescopic pipes and the same can be erected vertically by winding a cable. The sprayer can be used in orchard trees and for spraying in field crops, by bifurcating the delivery section into spray lines with spray lances and spray guns. Manufacturer: TNAU, Coimbatore Top of page 15. Production of Particle Board From Coirpith Function: To utilize coir pith for the production of particle board General Information: Coir pith being a waste disposed from the coir industries, pose the danger of pollution and health hazard. Being a lingo-cellulosic material, coir pith can be utilized for the production of particle board. The process of production of coir pith particle board involves drying of the coir pith and resination using phenol formaldehyde (16%) or urea formaldehyde (20%). The resinated pith is formed into a mat of desired thickness and hot pressed at 120ºC for 15-20 minutes. This board after the formation is trimmed along the sides and suitable for use as table top and providing partition and other light works. The laminated boards will be suitable for exterior use, as the water absorption and swelling character are more for the coir pith boards. Cost of Operation: Rs.40/sq.ft. of the board. Salient Features: Finds utilisation for the coir pith The boards are suitable for interior use as table top and for providing partition. Manufacturer: TNAU, Coimbatore Top of page 16. TNAU Power Weeder with Rotary and Tined Attachments A power weeder was developed at TNAU, Coimbatore. The equipment consists of a 5.4 hp, 34 kg light weight diesel engine mounted on the frame. From the engine, the power is transmitted to the transmission gear box and then to the ground wheels and rotary weeder. The machine is suitable for wide spaced crops such as cotton, tapioca, sugarcane, grapes, coconut, arecanut and other orchard and plantation crops. The row mounted hoe and sweep type weeders have three staggered tynes with provision for adjusting row-to-row spacing. The engine is mounted in front of the drive wheels for balancing of the machine. The cost of the machine is Rs 50,000/- and its cost of operation is Rs 380/ha. The effective field capacity and field efficiency were 0.09-0.11 ha/h and 85%, respectively. Top of page 17. Coconut Snowball Tender Coconut Machine: CPCRI The latter has also developed a coconut bunch support to be fixed on the trunk of the coconut tree to prevent the buckling of coconut bunches, and a coconut dehusking machine operated manually for reducing the drudgery and fatigue of traditional dehusking operation. Top of page 18. Power Operated Coconut Dehusker Features: The machine is used for dehusking of coconut. It consists of semi-circular stationary concave and rotating drum with knives. The electric motor (3 hp) with 10:1 speed reduction unit is used to drive the drum. The power is transmitted from motor to reduction unit using V -belt and further power from reduction unit to rotating drum is transmitted with chain and sprockets. During operation, the small knives bite the coconut fed through the inlet. At the outlet the nut is fed through two rollers to remove parts of husk remaining on the nut after dehusking. Specifications: Stationary concave width (rom) 250 Rotating drum width (rom) 250 No of rollers 2 Size of roller (1 x diameter) (rom) 280 x 955 Number of teeth on rollers 15 Frame (1 x b x h) (rom) 1020 x 380 x 970 Length of knives (rom) 12 Power source (hp) 3, Electric motor Performance Results: Rotary drum speed (rpm) 22-32 Time taken for dehusking one coconut (s) 10-20 Moisture content (%) 25.40 - 60.2 Torque (kg-m) 67.14 - 96.35 Uses: It is used for dehusking of coconut. Source: http://agricoop.nic.in Top of page 19. Manually Operated Coconut Splitting Machine Features: The manually operated device- is used for splitting dehusked coconuts. It consists of pedestal, pivoted long handle, cutting knife and a platform. Lifting the handle raises the knife. The dehusked nut is placed on the platform and then the knife is lowered to cut the nut. The water of coconut is collected after splitting the nut. Specifications: Overall dimensions (lxbxh) (mm): 650 x 650 x 1450 Pivoted handle length (mm): 550 Performance Results: Force required to cut the nut (kg): 155 Effort at the handle (kg): 30 Mechanical advantage: 5.17 Uses: It is used for splitting dehusked coconut kernel. Top of page 20. Cocotap COCOTAP is a patented quality product, made to last from food grade stainless steel 1.6mm tube, professionally milled and hand finished in Australia. It is easily re-sharpened and cleaned and can be hygienically used in premises serving the public. The T-bar handle is hinged so that the COCOTAP folds to a straight tube for easy use and storage. Features: Sharpened 1/2" diameter shaft with clearing port and 5/8" diameter handle. The total length is 170mm and makes a hole large enough for 2 straws. It is perfect for the average size hand and adding cocktail mixes. There is a short braided lanyard for hanging, and a protective cap with cleaning tool attached for convenience. How to use the COCOTAP: 1. Clutch the handle so that the solid side rests in the base of your palm. Use your knuckles, as in the picture, or thumb and forefinger to stabilize the shaft while pushing and twisting the spike into the middle of the coconut. Aim perpendicular to the inner shell so that the force applied pierces, rather than skips off, the inner shell. Remove by twisting out and drink through a straw. 2. If the coconut inner shell is too well developed to twist and push straight through, stop forcing and hold the COCOTAP handle upright. Then lightly strike the end, using a hammering device. Alternatively, invert the coconut with COCOTAP aimed at core then tap the end of the handle on a solid surface using the weight of the coconut as the "hammer" onto the COCOTAP spike. Note: The COCOTAP is not designed to penetrate fully matured coconuts, except through the soft eye once dehusked Remove the COCOTAP by the opened handle, twisting it out, then insert a drinking straw or two. If a straw is not readily available, simply tap two holes and drink or pour directly from the lower hole. 3. If necessary, clean the core of husk fibre from the COCOTAP through the inspection port, with the tool supplied, or this can be done using a coconut stalk of suitable diameter or any slightly flexible rod, screw driver etc. Note: depending on technique, coconut maturity, shell and husk density, the core often does not lodge in the COCOTAP. Manufacturers: PO Box 2269 Cairns, Queensland Australia 4870 E-Mail: paul@cocotap.com or call GMT-10 +61 7 40930834 Mobile +61 (0)422 751 761 Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Harvest and Post Harvest HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Harvest and Post Harvest Harvest About Harvesting: Twelve months old nuts are harvested at the interval of 30-45 days for seed as well as copra making and culinary purposes. For household use keep the nuts in vertical direction. However, for tender nut purposes 7 to 8 months old nuts are harvested. The nuts can be harvested using coconut climbers. Nuts which are 11 months old give fiber of good quality. This is suitable for coir fiber. In case of tall variety, the nuts harvested for seed purpose can be stored for 2 to 3 months period before sowing, whereas in case of dwarfs and hybrids, nuts should be sown with in a period of 10 –15 days of harvest. On an average, we can have eight harvests, though the coconut palm produces inflorescence every month. For oil extraction, nuts are generally sun dried for copra making. In this case there is a chance of dirt accumulation followed by oil quality deterioration, nuts can be dried in various types of driers available (Kiln, electric and solar driers) and also sun drying. Good quality copra can be obtained in short time by using these driers. Moisture content in copra for final use should be around 5-6%. Store the copra in polythene tar coated gunny bags. The oil yield of WCT palms under rainfed condition will be around 1.7 to 2 tons/ha. Harvesting methods Climbing Power tiller operated ladder Climbing cycle / equipment Method of harvest Harvesting of coconuts is commonly done by climbing the tree with the help of a rope ring round the feet or ankles of the climber or by using a ladder. On reaching the top, the climber taps the nut in the lowermost bunch with its harvesting knife to test its maturity. If he is satisfied, he cuts the bunch at the base of the stalk when it drops down to the ground. If the ground is very hard or if tender nuts are to be harvested, the bunches are lowered by using a rope. The climber also cleans the crown and removes the dry leaves, sheaths and spathes. In the West Coast and certain other tracts where coconut leaves are required for thatching houses, one or two lowermost leaves are also cut down at the time of harvest. The cutting down of green leaves is considered undesirable as it affects the yield of trees to some extent. In some places where the trees are not tall, harvesting is done by cutting the bunches with a knife, attached to a long bamboo pole. Nuts which are to be stored for making ball copra are not harvested till they are completely ripe and dry. Yield Average yield: 80 – 100 nuts/palm/year depending on the variety. Dwarf varieties-70 – 80 nuts/palm/year Tall varieties -80 – 100 nuts/palm/year Hybrids -100 – 130 nuts/palm/year Top of page Post Harvet About Post Harvest Fully matured nuts should be harvested For collection of seed nuts/tender coconuts the bunches should be harvested and brought down by using ropes to prevent the damage of nuts. Copra to be dried to 6% moisture by sun drying or by using copra driers The storage period of copra can be increased up to 6 months by storing the copra in polythene tar coated gunny bags. For household storage the nuts may be kept in vertical position. Dehusking: Manual dehusking with the help of an iron rod driven to the ground is strenuous and skill oriented. Presently mechanical devices are used for dehusking. Copra Processing: The optimum moisture content in copra is 5-6 percent. Sun drying, smoke drying, kiln drying and indirect hot air drying are commonly used drying methods. (i) Sun Drying: Traditional system of copra drying is by spreading the cups (Split open coconut) on any open surface for sun drying. It takes about 8 days for sun drying. The deposition of dirt and dust on wet meat during sun drying results in deterioration of copra quality. Further, cloudy weather and low atmospheric temperature also reduce the quality of copra. (ii) Solar Dryer: Use of a closed type solar dryer avoids the quality deterioration of copra due to deposition of dirt. Drying time is reduced to 3-4 days. A batch type of solar cabinet dryer with a capacity of 100 nuts developed at CPCRI takes only 3 days for drying. (iii) Indirect Drying: 1. Small Holder Copra Dryer: An indirect copra dryer of 400 nuts per batch capacity (using agricultural waste as fuel) developed at CPCRI is gaining popularity among coconut growers. The dryer requires only 3 sq.m for housing and could be carried by 2-3 persons. The drying time required per batch is 36 hours spread over 4 days. Kerala Agro Industries Corporation (KAICU) is manufacturing this type of dryer. 2. Large Holders Copra Dryer: Large size copra dryer, the capacity of 3500-4000 nuts is developed at CPCRI. The unit is suitable for large holding and copra processing societies. 3. Smoke Free Copra Dryer for Medium Holding: CPCRI has developed this with a capacity of 1000 nuts per batch. This can dry coconut in 24 hours. It has got unique furnace where in the fuel used is only shell. 4. Electrical Copra Dryer: CPCRI has developed an electrically operated dryer with forced hot air circulation. Its capacity 1000 nuts per batch with a drying time of 28 hrs. (iv) Ball Copra: Ball copra is of superfine quality and commands a premium price in the market. It is prepared by storing fully mature nuts for 10-12 months, when kernal will get detached from the shell. CPCRI has developed dryer to prepare ball copra in shorter time by giving different heat treatments. (v) Copra Grading: The copra is graded in the order of its market value. The grading is mainly based on moisture content, foreign matter and black copra. The maximum limits for them are 10 per cent, 2 per cent and 5 per cent respectively. However, the good quality copra should have the following requirements: The Good Quality Copra Particulars Percentage (%) Moisture 6 Oil content 71 Acid value 2.5 Foreign matter 0.5 Mouldy cups 5 Wrinkled cups 5 (free) Black copra 1 (free) Milling Copra Particulars Foreign matter (per cent by weight – maximum) 1.0 Mouldy and black kernels (per cent by count –maximum) 10.0 Wrinkled kernels (per cent by count – maximum 10.0 Chips (per cent by weight – maximum) 10.0 Moisture content (per cent by weight – maximum) 6.0 Edible Ball Copra Particulars Size (diameter) minimum in mm 75.0 Foreign matter ( per cent by weight – maximum) 0.2 Mouldy and black kernels (per cent by count –maximum) 2.0 Wrinkled kernels (per cent by count – maximum 10.0 Chips (per cent by weight – maximum) 1.0 Moisture content (per cent by weight – maximum) 1.0 Safe storage of copra: Copra obtained from commonly cultivated varieties / cultivars is attacked by various insect pests in store. Among these ham beetle, Necrobia rufipes and saw toothed grain beetle, Oryzaphilus surinamensis are of major importance, which can cause more than 15% loss to copra when stored for more than six months. Following precautions are to be taken for the safe storage of copra for more than three months: Dry the produce to four per cent moisture content. Avoid heap storage, which causes maximum damage. Store copra in netted polythene bags or gunny bags. Pests of Copra Source Insects cause serious damage to copra in storage. Apart from loss in tonnage, insect attack adversely affects the quality. In severe cases, the financial loss on this account may even exceed that arising from loss by weight. Following are the pests of copra. (a) Carpophilus dimidiatus (Corn Sap Beetle) It is the most common insect in copra godowns. In India also it is commonly present in copra stores. The beetle is small, flat, broad, and about 3 mm in length and 1.5 mm in width. It can be readily distinguished from the other beetles by its shorter wing covers, which do not completely cover the abdomen. The beetle completes its life cycle in about five weeks. (b) Necrobia rufipes (Copra beetle or Red – legged harm beetle) Necrobia beetle has a world-wide distribution and is known as' Harm Beetle' in America and' Copra Bug' in the Pacific. It is generally metallic blue in colour but sometimes with a greenish lustre. Its length varies from 3.5 mm to 5.5 mm. The first five joints of the antennae are brown, the rest black, and the terminal three are expanded. It completes its life cycle in about 40 days. (c) Ahasverus advena (Foreign grain beetle) It is known as "Foreign Grain beetle," and is present throughout the world. It has been recorded feeding upon a variety of stored products. It is abundant in copra stores, but is practically mycetophagous. The adult beetle is very small, measuring about 2 mm in length and 0.75 mm in width, and is chestnut brown in colour. The life cycle of the beetle is completed in about thirty days. (d) Oryzaephilus surinamensis (Saw-toothed Grain Beetle) This Cucujid beetle is commonly known as "Saw Toothed Grain beetle," and it is a serious pest of stored grains; copra and other stored food products throughout the world. The adult beetle is small, flat, elongate, dark brown, about 3 mm in length and 0.75 mm in width. The pro-thorax has three longitudinal ridges with two depressed areas and its lateral margins are each armed with six prominent tooth-like projections. The beetle breeds throughout the year in the moulds and crevices of degenerated copra, and completes its life cycle in about thirty days. (e) Tribolium castaneum (Red flour beetle) It is commonly known as "Red Flour beetle ", and is primarily a pest of cereal products like wheat flour, ' suji ' and' maida " but causes damage to quite a number of other stored products including copra. The beetle is small, flat, elongated, reddish brown, about 3.5 mm in length and 1.25 mm in width. The first seven joints of the antennae show a gradual increase in size and the last three are thickened into a club. In India, its life cycle varies from six to twelve weeks. (f) Trogoderma granaria (Khapra beetle) This pest is known as' Khapra ' in the towns and villages of India, and its principal food is wheat. The adults are harmless, and only the grubs are destructive. The beetle is about 3.5 mm in length and 1 mm in width, and has a characteristic oval shape. The head is disproportionately small and is concealed from above by the pronotum. The life cycle in humid places is completed in about two months. (g) Corcyra cephalonica (Rice moth) This pest is commonly known as the Rice Moth and is a serious pest of stored paddy, rice, cereals, copra and other stored food products. The head and thorax of the moth are brownish in colour. The fore-wings are brown with a pinkish tinge, speckled with darker scales running longitudinally. The hind wings are shiny and silver grey. The wing expanse is about 25 mm. (h) Ephestia cautella (Fig moth or Almond) This is frequently referred to as the' Almond' or the' Fig Moth' and is one of the most important insects infesting dried fruits, cocoa, spices, cashew nut, copra and groundnut. The moth is about 6 mm in length with a wing expanse of 15 mm. Its colour varies with food and environments, but mostly the fore- wings are greyish-brown, some what mottled with a distinctly darker coloured transverse band. The average life cycle on mouldy copra is six weeks. Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Coconut Processing HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Coconut Processing Coconut water is a refreshing drinks which also hygienic and nutritive. The white flesh is a calories rich extensively used for cookery in South India. From grated wet coconut kernel good quality oil as well as protein and carbohydrate can be extracted to prepare coconut honey. Undesirable flavour changes in desiccated coconut is due to oxidative rancidity of the oil. The residual cake after the oil has been extracted is used as cattle food. The dried coconut meat is known as copra and is the source of coconut oil, which is used in enormous quantities for making fats for baking and confectionery. An important product used in the chocolate and confectionery industry is desiccated coconut. The nut is removed from the hard shell and the thin brown rind pared off. This must be very thorough or the finished coconut will be contaminated by flecks of brown. The pared nuts are then washed free of milk and skin residues and put through shredding machines, which give a milled product of varying degree of fineness. After shredding, the ground meat is subjected to a steam or hot water treatment to destroy salmonella and lipases and to reduce bacteria counts to low levels. The pasteurized meat is then dried on wire mesh belts by means of hot air, which reduces the moisture content to less than 4%. The critical moisture level of desiccated coconut is 5% and the product should be well below this to ensure good shelf life. After drying, the desiccated coconut is put through a multiple sieving operation to produce the four main grades. Extra fine, macaroon (fine), medium and coarse. A variety of other coconut products is available to the chocolate and confectionery trade such as, moist white sweetened coconut, toasted coconut, creamed coconut and tenderized coconut. Top quality desiccated coconut should be white in colour, free from foreign matter, and uniform in granulation against standard, and the expressed oil should have a free fatty acid content of less than 0.1%. Extraction of Coconut Oil The coconut is the most extensively grown and used nut in the world. About 10 million people in India and several million of people in other tropical regions depend on the coconut plant for their livelihood. India is the third largest coconut producing country of the world with an area of about 1.12 million hectares contributing to 18% of world production. India produces about 6000 million nuts annually. A whole coconut consists of 50% husk, 15% shell, 25% meat and 10% water. The coconut shells contain 34% cellulose, 36% Lignin, 29% pentosans and 1% Ash. COMPOSITION OF FRESH COCONUT KERNEL AND COPRA Product Moisture % Fat % Protein % Carbohydrate % Mineral % Fibre % Kernel (wet) 40-50 35 4 8-20 1 2 Copra 6-7 62-65 7-5 15 2 3-4 Traditional method: The coconut oil is traditionally extracted from copra. The copra can be obtained by separating the coconut meat from the whole coconut shell followed by sundrying and smoke drying for about 6 to 8 days. The copra is then chopped to small sizes and cooked by heating the small pieces of copra in a cooker for about 30 mins. The oil is squeezed out from cooked copra by an expeller and then filtered by a filter press. Mechanical Extraction of Coconut Oil from the Fresh Coconut Meat: The processes and operations involved in modern mechanical expression of coconut is given below; The coconut shells are cracked and the coconut meat is separated. The fresh coconut meat is chopped and sliced into thin flakes of the desired size. The thin flakes of coconut meat are cooked in a cooker by heating them at an elevated temperature for 90 mins. The oil is expelled from the heat treated cooked coconut meat (at a temperature of about 70°C) in an oil expeller. The oil is stored in an air tight container in a dark cool and dry place for a log and safe storage. The deoiled cake obtained from this process is suitable for human consumption. Value Added Coconut Products Coconut has been used as staple part of the diets of almost all Polynesian and many Asian people for centuries. It is used as food, as flavouring and made into beverages. Today’s young consumers depend heavily on conventional food. It is in this sector that coconut has a good chance to increase its use. The important products of coconut in our country are whole coconut (tender and mature), copra, toddy, neera, gur, coconut palm candy, sugar, vinegar etc. and few novel recipes like coconut boli, banana coconut cake. Coconut is a tasty food adjunct is well recognized. To use coconut in preparations, the consumer has to break the nut transversely into two, shred into gratings and then process further. On the other hand, if coconut gratings, its rich milk and even prepared foods are available as such on the shelves of the market, surely consumers, especially the younger generation will be generated to encouraged to use them in preparations much more. Coconut honey: Coconut honey is a product from coconut water containing many growth promoting trace elements besides glucose, fructose and levulose. Coconut water was filtered, evaporated and blended with a little golden syrup to produce coconut honey, a palatable nutty flavored breakfast food, soft drinks additive and a sweetener. Coco sauce: A tangy sauce can be prepared from coconut water with red chilli, onion powder and little vinegar. Coconut lemonade: It was prepared by boiling coconut water, sugar and lemon juice. It is traditionally a popular drink in Kerala. Nata-de-coco **: Nata from fresh liquid endosperm of the matured coconut is collected and filtered by using cheese cloth. It is pasteurized after adding 8 per cent sucrose, 0.5 per cent ammonium sulphate and adjusting the pH to 4.5 by adding acetic acid. The medium is developed by inoculating Acetobacter acetii at 10 per cent and incubated at room temperature for about two weeks. After two weeks a gel like mass developed with a film like layer on the top. The film is then removed and the mass is cleaned and cut into cubes. The cubes (nata) are further processed to improve the colour, flavour and taste by soaking it in sugar syrup. The nata can be used to decorate desserts, ice cream, puddings and fruit salad. Coconut Kernel (or) White Meat**: The preservation and pickling of coconut was done by soaking the coconut kernels in brine solution maintained their colour, flavour, texture and taste and resembled like fresh coconut for 90 days. The salt and acid penetration in pickle is directly proportional to the concentration in the soak solution. The steeped coconut kernel were kept for 90 days under study, in which there was a remarkable reduction in reducing sugar, total sugar and free fatty acid content was increased gradually. The moisture content after storage ranged between 38.05 and 38.61 per cent. The fresh coconut kernel could be preserved as long as for 3 to 6 months in the from of pieces and scrapings by steeping in a solution containing 4 per cent salt, acetic acid, sulphur dioxide and antioxidant. The product required washing in water prior to use. Desiccated Coconut**: Desiccated coconut, the edible dried-out shredded coconut meat was prepared from fresh kernel of fully matured coconut and it is available in coarse, medium and fine grades and also in special grades such as threads, strips, granules etc. Good desiccated coconut is crisp, snow white in colour with a sweet, pleasant and fresh taste of coconut kernel. Desiccated coconut, a commercial product was manufactured from the white part of the meat after removing the brown parings. The meat is shredded or disintegrated and dried in hot air driers at 140-170oF to 2 per cent moisture content (fat 65-68 % and Solids nonfat 30-32%) and used in the manufacture of cakes, pastries and chocolates. Desiccated coconut is the disintegrated, white kernel of coconut processed under strict hygienic conditions and dried to a moisture content of below 3.0 per cent. It is a food product which is ready and fit for direct human consumption. Products from desiccated coconut**: The matured coconut kernels were steam blanched and soaked in sugar syrup of 30o brix for a period of 48hrs.The drained pieces were sulphited for 20 min and dried in the cabinet drier at a temperature of 60oC for 8 h. Storage studies proved that sugar acts as an osmotic agent for the preservation of coconut. Osmotically dehydrated coconut was well suited for the preparation of products in the homes as well in commercial units. The desiccated coconut powder (2%) or soy protein concentrate (SCP) (4.5%) was used in the preparation of mango bar, which increased the percentage of protein. The total soluble solids of pulp was raised to 30o brix with powdered cane sugar adding 0.6% citric acid and drying in an air cabinet drier at 63 + 2oC for 14h. Coconut powder was used in the preparation of ragi based convenience mixes viz., sweetened and spiced mix. The other ingredients for sweetened mix were puffed ragi flour, sugar, beaten rice flakes, cardamom, coconut powder and puffed ragi flour, sugar, dehydrated coriander leaves, hydrogenated fat, coconut powder and groundnut for spiced mix. In sweetened mix, addition of beaten rice improved the colour but increased the rate of lipid oxidation while incorporation of coconut powder lowered the lipid oxidation. The value added products from coconut, such as dehydrated coconut (both savoury and sweet), ready-to-use coconut chutney mix, coconut kuruma mix, coconut rice mix and coconut burfi mix was developed. Acidified salt solution and sugar syrup were used as osmotic agents for the preparation of dehydrated coconut for savoury and sweet dishes. The dehydrated coconut (savoury) was prepared by soaking the blanched coconut scrapings in the soak solution containing 1.0 per cent salt, 1.0 per cent acetic acid and 250 ppm of SO2 without antioxidant (T1) and with antioxidant (T2) for 24 hr and dried in the cabinet drier at 60° C for 4 to 5 hr (upto 4.0 % moisture). The treated and dehydrated coconut samples were packed in 300 gauge polyethylene bag without vacuum and with vacuum and stored at room temperature to observe the storage behaviour. Coconut Chips*: Coconut chips, the thinly sliced crispy coconut meat which may be sweetened or salted and may come in handy as a ready -to- eat snack food. It was prepared by slicing the coconut meat of eleven to twelve month old nuts thinly into strands, soaked in syrup, drained and dried in a dryer or oven. Coconut Crisps*: Coconut crisp is prepared from the young coconut endosperm of nine to ten month old nuts. It is white in colour, has pleasant coconut flavour and does not leave any fibrous feeling after taste. It was processed by slicing the meat into 0.6-0.7mm thickness, blanched in boiling water, cooked in light syrup and then dried which is considered as a high energy food and of a good quality product. Roasted young coconut*: Roasted young coconut was prepared by a process in order to sweeten its water and tender meat as well as to enhance their flavour. The process consisted of preliminary steps and the nuts were boiled in a solution (2% sodium meta bi- sulphite) for 20 min, dried and burnt for finishing touch and it was exposed to the fire for a minute or until the shell itself showed signs of burning. The fruit was kept at room temperature for 3 days or in the refrigerator for larger storage. Honey roasted coconut*: Honey roasted coconut, a sweet, thinly sliced crispy coconut meat, eaten as a snack food. Sliced matured coconut meats was mixed with honey sugar, margarine, sweeten condensed skim milk, molasses and salt and dried in oven for half an hour. Then it was agitated frequently for 15 min until it become crispy, cooled and packed. Dehydrated sweet coconut*: Young coconut meat was used for preparation of dehydrated sweet coconut. The coconut meat was washed with water and then soaked in coconut water, again washed with clean water. The meat was cut into pieces mixed with refined sugar and water in the ratio of 6:3:1 and boiled for 1 h or until it is dried, cooled and packed. Dehydrated coconut chutney**: Dehydrated coconut chutney using simple hot air drying technique was developed. It reconstitutes well in cold water and had all the characteristics of fresh chutney. The product had a shelf life of 3 months at 37oC and 6 months at ambient temperature when packed in flexible pouches. Coconut milk**: Coconut milk refers to the milky fluid, freshly extracted from the coconut kernel with or without added water and coconut cream to the high-fat cream-like material obtained from the coconut milk by either gravitational separation or centrifugation Coconut milk was prepared by blending skim milk powder with coconut milk, obtained from freshly grated coconut and pasteurized at 70-72oC for 10min. It contains 6 percent skim milk powder and 9.65 percent total solids (Agrawal, et al. (1991). Coconut milk, a generic term for the aqueous extract of the solid coconut endosperm, plays an important role in the cuisines of South East Asia as well as in other parts of the world. Fermented beverage from coconut skim milk using different combinations of coconut skim milk and non-fat dry milk and the culture used was Lactobacillus bulgaricus. Based on sensory evaluation, 50 per cent of coconut skim milk: 50 per cent of non- fat dry milk ratio was the most acceptable formulation. The ready-to-drink fermented beverage concentrate (diluted at 1:3) contains protein (1%), fat (0.74%), sugar (18.70%) and water (79.25%). The fermented beverage concentrate was found to be stable even after 2 months of storage and coconut skim milk can be utilized successfully for the processing of cultured milk. Coconut cream: The concentrated milk extracted from fresh matured coconuts can either be used directly or diluted with water to make various curry preparation, sweets, desserts, puddings etc. Processed and packed coconut cream had a shelf life of six months and once opened it should be stored in refrigerator for subsequent use. Coconut cream, a concentrated form of coconut milk, which is a convenient product prepared from mature and fresh. Coconut syrup: Coconut syrup, a translucent, free-flowing liquid was prepared by cooking coconut milk with an equal amount of refined sugar and di-sodium-phosphate equivalent to 0.25 per cent of the volume of the milk, until the mixture attained a TSS content of 68-70 per cent. The hot mixture was poured in sterile containers and sealed hermetically. It was used as a topping for bakery products or as a mixer in alcoholic drinks or may be diluted in water and used in cooking rice cakes and other delicacies. Coconut honey: Coconut honey is viscous, free-flowing syrup, similar to coconut syrup but less creamy and less nutty in flavour was used as topping for pancakes and waffles. One part of skim milk was mixed with ½ part of refined sugar and ½ part of glucose, and then blended with sodium alginate at 0.5 per cent as stabilizer. Coconut cream may be added to improve the flavour of the product. The mixture was heated for 15 minutes, homogenized and cooked with constant stirring in steam-jacketed kettle to a TSS of 75 per cent. It was poured hot into sterile containers and then sealed hermetically. Sweetened condensed coconut milk: Coconut skim milk was used in the preparation of sweetened condensed coconut milk. Powdered dairy skim milk was added for protein fortification and other ingredients were corn oil, coconut cream and sugar. The skim milk was first pasteurized for 30 mins at 80-90oC and mixed with other ingredients. The mixture was blended or passed through a colloid mill, and heated in a steam jacketed kettle with constant stirring to a TSS content of 68%. It was packed hot in sterile tin cans and cooled immediately in cooling tanks. Coconut candy*: Coconut candy was prepared from grated coconut meat mixed with coconut milk. The grated coconut was moistened with a portion of the milk. The remaining milk and the molasses were poured in a cooking pan, and the mixture was heated to boiling. Refined sugar was added and the mixture was cooked until it gets hardened when dropped into cold water. It was then poured in butter-greased pans, allowed to cool slightly, cut into desired sizes and individually wrapped in cellophane sheets. Coconut milk powder: Coconut milk powder was prepared by dehydrating the milk under controlled conditions. The composition of the milk was adjusted with fat percentage in the range of 50-60 per cent of the total solids. The emulsifiers and stabilizers were also added to the formulation. The most crucial step was the dehydration stage for which spray drier was employed at high temperature (around 180oC). Instant dehydration takes place converting each tiny droplet into microcapsules with fine droplet of the oil inside Coconut flour**: Coconut flour is a unique product prepared from coconut residue. Coconut flour, a by-product in the processing of coconut milk, can provide not only value-added income to the entrepreneurs but also a nutritious and a healthy source of dietary fiber for the consumers. It can be used as fillers, bulking agents and substitute for wheat flour, rice flour and potato flour at certain levels and incorporated into various food products like baked products, snack foods, steamed and extruded products. One by-product of coconut is the “sapal” from coconut meal, taken after extraction of the coconut milk. The “sapal” was made into coconut flour which contains dietary fibre. The utilization of coconut sapal may have some health benefits and may encourage the industry to produce value added products or functional foods which may help in the proper control and management of chronic diseases. This offers scope for utilization of coconut flour as a dietary component for diabetes. Low-fat, high fibre coconut flour, a unique product from sapal is a good source of dietary fiber. It is comparable with other cereal flour in terms of carbohydrate, fat and energy content and a good ingredient in nutraceuticals. Tender coconut water: It is valued both for the refreshing drink and gelatinous kernel, which is a delicious food. The tender nut water is rich in potassium and minerals. Glucose content is maximum in seven months old nuts and hence the best stage for drinking. The dwarf coconut variety, Chowghat Orange Dwarf (COD) is a tender nut variety. The composition of tender nut water from this variety is as follows: Particulars Quantity of tender nut water 350 ml/nut Calorific value 17.5/1000g of tender nut water Sugar 7.1 mg/100 ml of tender nut water Potassium 2000ppm Sodium 20ppm Tender coconut water concentrate: Coconut water concentrate was prepared using fresh coconut water collected under hygienic condition. Suspended solids and oil in the samples were removed by means of three way centrifuge. The removal of the solids and oil was necessary in order to minimize fouling of the membranes. The salts present in coconut water may be removed if desired, prior to concentration, to produce a very sweet product. This is achievable by passing the centrifuged coconut water through a mixed-bed ion exchange resin. The concentrate can be frozen or preserved in cans and used as base for the production of carbonated and non-carbonated coconut beverage. Crystallized fruit was prepared using candied fruit coated with sugar or sugar crystals and allowed to deposit on it. Crystallized candy made with tender coconut kernel can be consumed as a snack. Tender coconut kernel in sugar syrup can be used as a dessert or incorporated in ice cream, custard or pudding. Toddy: Coconut toddy is obtained from the inflorescence before the flower fully develop. Sweet toddy is the unfermented fresh juice obtained by tapping. Toddy on fermentation becomes an alcoholic drink. Coconut jaggery: Sweet toddy if carefully collected in sterile glass vessels remains unfermented for a considerable time. It can be strained and boiled down to the crystallizing point, to obtain 12-15 per cent jaggery with nutritional and medicinal value. The reducing sugars and minerals made it more nutritious and health friendly. Coconut vinegar: Vinegar was produced from fermenting coconut toddy and was commonly used in the preparation of fish and meat dishes. If toddy was fermented for more than 24 hours and acidification was done for 10-14 weeks and the resultant was coconut vinegar. FLOW CHART FOR THE DEHYDRATION OF COCONUT** Snow Ball Tender Nut (SBTN): Snow ball tender nut is a tender coconut without husk, shell and testa which is ball shaped and white in colour. Coconuts of 8 months age is more suitable for making SBTN in which there is no decrease in quantity of tender nut water and the kernal is sufficiently soft. Matured Coconut Water: Technologies have been developed for upgrading and bottling of matured coconut water as a soft drink using certain preservatives. Matured coconut water is been utilized successfully for production of vinegar using the technology developed at CFTRI, Mysore. Virgin coconut oil: Virgin coconut oil (VCO), extracted from fresh coconut meat without chemical processes is said to be the "mother of all oils". It is rich in medium chain fatty acids, particularly lauric acid and is a treasure trove of minerals, vitamins, antioxidants and is an excellent nutraceutical. It has about 50% lauric acids, having qualities similar to mother's milk, thus confirming its disease-fighting ability. When lauric acid enters human body it gets converted to Monolaurin, which has the ability to enhance immunity. Several studies have confirmed that this compound has the ability to kill viruses including herpes and numerous other bacteria. Its antiviral effect has the ability to considerably reduce the viral load of HIV patients. VCO is not subjected to high temperatures, solvents or refinement procedures and therefore retains the fresh scent and taste of coconuts. It is rich in vitamin E, is non-greasy, non-staining and is widely used in soaps, lotions, creams and lip balms. The health benefits of VCO are second to none; ranging from speeding up body metabolic system and providing immunity against a horde of commonly prevalent diseases. Process: Coconut Kernels are first disintegrated into small pieces in a Disintegrator and then fed into a screw press for milk extraction. The oil is then separated from the water using a mechanical centrifuge. The result is a clear coconut oil that retains the distinct scent and taste of coconuts. Laboratory tests show that this is a very high quality coconut oil, with the lauric acid content being 47 to 52%. Product specification Moisture % wt., Max. 0.25 Colour in 1/4 cell Lovibond Y+5R, not Deeper than 2.0 Acid value, Max. 0.50 Unsap. matter % by wt., Max. 0.8 Polenske Value, Min. 0.8 Project Cost 20000 coconuts /day capacity) Land (cost variable) 50 cents Building 6000 sq.ft. Rs.40 lakhs Plant and Machinery Rs.85 lakhs Preliminary and preparative expenses Rs.10 lakhs Contingencies Rs.2.50 lakhs Working capital (Margin Money) Rs.20 lakhs Machinery 1. Hammer Mill 2. Bucket elevator 3. Centrifuge 4. Screw press 5. Screw conveyor 6. Crude coconut oil storage tanks 7. Vibratory Sieve 8. Micro filter 9. Filtered oil storage tanks 10. Volumetric filling machine - - Yield Raw material 10000 coconuts Virgin Coconut oil 600 litres Project Highlights (at 90% cap. Utilization) Sales turnover 800 lakhs Net Profit 160.0 lakhs IRR 18% Break Even point 65% Manufacturing units M/s.Golden Vintage Farmer’s Industry, Muringoor, Koratty.P.O., Chalakudy-680 308 ,CEO: K.A.Jogy, Ph. 0480-2732858,3252858 Mob: 9447782851 M/s. Mosons Extractions, Industrial Estate, Palayad, Thalassery, Kannur Dt. Ph: 0490-3206825, Mob- 9388636181(Shri Anvar), 9447370956 E-mail: mosonsextractions@yahoo.co.in M/s. Keratech Coconut Oil Manufacturing Company (P) Ltd., 1/332 B, P.O.Engandiyur, Trichur Ph: 0487-2294515, 2296393, Web Site: www.keratechindia.com M/s.Srithara Agro Tech, G1, Tip Top Towers, Opposite Power Office Road N.G.O. Colony, Ongole, A.P. PIN 523 002 Ph: 08592 282366, Mob: 9246463118 Coconut By-Products 1. Coconut shell charcoal: This is obtained by burning the shell of fully matured nuts with a limited supply of air so that they do not burn away to ash but are only carbonized. it is used extensively for the manufacture of activated carbon. The charcoal has a high absorption capacity for gases and coloring matter and can be used as a refining agent, both as deodorizer and a decoloursier. It is also used in laundries and smitheries. 2. Activated Carbon: Shell charcoal on activation is transformed into activated carbon which is having the ability to observe effectively even trace quantities of either unwanted or valuable liquids and gases. Activated carbon is used in solvent recovery processes, water and effluent treatment and the treatment of flue gas before discharge into the atmosphere. 3. By-Products from husk: About 30 percent of the husk is fibre a 70 per cent is coir dust. Coir and coir products form the major output from the coconut husk. Coir pith is used as manure (After composting), mulch material and for making briquettes. The coir pith briquettes can be used as a substitute fuel in the place of fire wood for tile and brick industries. 4. Mushroom Cultivation Using Coconut By-Products: Methods to cultivate mushroom using by-products of coconut as substrate have been developed at CPCRI, Kasargod. Among the cultivated mushroom, oyster mushroom belonging to Pleurotus spp. is the ideal one for cultivation on coconut by-products, because of the ability to utilize lignin rich materials and favourable climatic condition in the coconut growing areas. Coconut bunch waste, leaf stalk, mixtures of leaf stalk + coir pith in 1:1 ratio and bunch waste + coir pith in 1:1 ratio were found to be better substrate for mushroom cultivation. On a average, mushroom yields 590 and 570 g per kg dry weight of leaf stalk and bunch waste in a cropping period of 73 and 60 days respectively. Polybags method of cultivation could be followed using 3% spawn applied by multi layering technique. This can be done in low cost sheds build with coconut materials such as plaited coconut leaves and coconut wood inside an adult coconut garden. Spraying 1% urea and 1% super phosphate helps to reduce the interval between flushes. Pleurotus eous, P. florida and P. sajor caju are the suitable species for cultivation in this method. Other products Handicrafts items like ladles, forks, show piece, shell buttons, ice creams cup are prepared from coconut shells. The coconut wood is used for making wall panels, furniture’s Coconut leaves are plaited for thatching houses and sheds. It is also used for making baskets, temporary fences. Midribs of the leaves are used to make brooms. Source * - Post Harvest Technology Centre, TNAU, Coimbatore ** - Home Science College and Research Institute, TNAU, Madurai http://img.alibaba.com/photo/11604133/RBD_Coconut_Oil.jpg http://fromnaturewithlove.com/images/MilkPwdCoconut.jpg http://z.about.com/d/thaifood/1/5/n/6/ccstep9.JPG http://parrotisland.mainsecureserver.com/catalog/images/Coconut%20Chips1.jpeg http://www.boreas-online.com/catalog/pics/Defatted_Desiccated_Coconut.jpg http://www.marketmanila.com/wpcontent/uploads/2008/03/146.jpg http://images.craveonline.com/article_imgs/Image/honey.jpg http://pic.ccn.mofcom.gov.cn/export/14999/20070704143253.jpg http://www.retrotuckshopsweetsdirect.co.uk/images/sweetpics%20024.jpg http://www.boreas-online.com/catalog/pics/Defatted_Desiccated_Coconut.jpg http://image.ecplaza.net/offer/g/ghuerto/4109238_s.jpg http://www.abcstores.com/prodimg/COCONUTSYRUP-9Z.JPG dailygirlblog.blogspot.com/2006/12/coconut-bu... http://i192.photobucket.com/albums/z315/Archupritish/chutney.jpg http://queenofthemeadowblooms.typepad.com/ 4.jpg Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Harvest and Post Harvest HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Schemes and Statistics 1. Schems 2. Statistics Schems Schemes under 3 states 1. Schemes of State Government of Kerala 2. Schemes of State Government of Tamil Nadu 3. Schemes of State Government of Karnataka Top of page Schemes of State Government of Kerala 1. Schemes of State Government of Kerala · Increase production and productivity of coconut · Production and distribution of quality coconut seedlings · Production of seedlings from elite mother palms in root (wilt) affected areas · Promotion of micro enterprises · For the promotion of Neera as health drink · Demonstration of Integrated Farming on coconut Top of page 1. Increasing Production & Productivity of Coconut. For successful implementation of Kerasree, Kerasree groups at 25-50 ha contiguous/cluster area at ward level and Kerasree samithies at panchayat level and Kerasree apex body at district level has been formed with active involvement of coconut farmers, officers of all line departments etc. a) Activities to be undertaken by the Kerasree groups 1. Programme to increase production and productivity of coconut in the area 2. Undertake steps for replanting/rehabilitation of coconuts 3. Removing senile and diseased palms 4. Arranging quality coconut seedlings 5. Community application of organic manure, fertilizers and undertaking cultural management practices 6. Implementation of irrigation/community irrigation projects 7. Implementation of pest and disease management programme including release of biocontrol agents 8. Value addition and product diversification 9. Procurement and processing of coconut 10. Utilizing by-products like coconut husk, coir pith, coconut timber, coconut shell, coconut leaves etc. 11. Production of organic manures by effective utilization of coir pith, coconut waste etc. 12. Coconut based rural employment and income generation 13. Intercropping/multi species cropping and mixed cropping Agricultural Officer will chalk out activities for the above items taking into consideration the present practices followed, local resources available, manpower required, the resources that can be considered at local body schemes, those to be carried out by block panchayat scheme/jilla panchayat scheme or those that can considered by state government etc. with definite period /time schedule. Each activity will be carried out on a group basis. b)Apex body of Kerasree Apex body formed at district level under the chairmanship of Jilla Panchayat President and Principal Agricultural Officer as member secretary and convenor and chairman of each Kerasree samithy as members. This body will meet atleast once in every 6 months and monitor the programme. c)Assistance proposed The assistance will be granted to the samities which are already formed during 2007-08. Agricultural Officer of the Krishi Bhavan will choose any of the following components based on local requirement as assistance for the scheme. 1. Assistance will be provided for Integrated Nutrient Management of coconut palms 2. Creating irrigation facilities – well/pumpset with 50% subsidy subject to a maximum of Rs.3500/- per unit. 3. Cost of release of bio-control agents 4. 50% subsidy for replanting with genetically improved coconut seedlings 5. Supply of green manure seeds with 50% subsidy subject to a maximum of Rs.12/kg. 6. 50% subsidy for raising vegetables, banana, pineapple etc as inter crop in coconut gardens Apart from this Kerasree will seek the assistance from the schemes, like micro irrigation, RKVY, CDB schemes etc. Top of page 2. Production and distribution of quality coconut seedlings During the Current year, it is proposed to procure 3.5 lakh seednuts for producing coconut seedlings, procurement cost of seednuts, nursery expenses, transportation cost of seednuts and seedlings and infrastrucuture development of coconut nurseries. Top of page Schemes of State Government of Tamil Nadu SUPPLY OF COCONUT SEEDLINGS Supply of tall Coconut seedlings @ Rs. 15/seedling Supply of Tall x Dwarf Coconut seedlings @ Rs. 25/seedling Supply of Dwarf x Tall Coconut seedlings @ Rs. 75/seedling Top of page Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits Coconut seedlings will be supplied to all the farmers in the state except The Nilgiris district Officer to be contacted Assistant Agricultural Officer at the Village level Deputy Agricultural Officer/Agricultural Officer at the Block level The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block level. The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District level. Top of page STRENGTHENING OF QUALITY SEED PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION Coconut seedlings distribution Tall variety distribution subsidy @ Rs. 7.50/ seedling Hybrid varity distribution subsidy@Rs. 15/ seedling Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits Coconut farmers in all the districts except Chennai and the Nilgiris INTEGRATED FARMING IN COCONUT HOLDING FOR PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT Laying out demonstration plots – Rs.35,000/- will be given in two instalments towards laying out demonstration plots @ Rs. 17,500/- per ha/year Management of disease affected palms – Towards cut and removal of disease affected trees a subsidy of Rs. 250/- will be provided through the department of Agriculture Organic Manure pits – Rs. 20,000/- per unit will be given Coconut cluster training: Coconut FIGs are trained on product diversification ie., coconut chips, coconut vinegar, coconut snowball etc., rs.5000 per training of 20 farmers in each group. (FIGs on coconut are eligible (15-20 farmers/farm women in each group)) Top of page Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits Coconut farmers in all the districts except Chennai and the Nilgiris Officer to be contacted Assistant Agricultural Officer at the Village level Deputy Agricultural Officer/Agricultural Officer at the Block level The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block level. The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District level. DISTRIBUTION OF MICRONUTRIENT MIXTURE Supply of Micronutrients for coconut crops @ Rs. 41.20 per kg Officer to be contacted Assistant Agricultural Officer at the Village level Deputy Agricultural Officer/Agricultural Officer at the Block level The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block level. Top of page ASSISTANCE TO FARMERS FOR TAKING UP PLANT PROTECTION MEASURES Supply of Green Muscardine fungus rot the control of Rhinocerous beetle in coconut: One tube per ha at free of cost Supply of parasites for the control of Black Headed caterpillar in coconut : Rs. 35 as service charge Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits Coconut farmers in all the districts except Chennai and the Nilgiris Top of page Schemes of State Government of Karnataka 1. Scheme for Integrated farming in coconut for Productivity/ improvement with Coocnut Development Board Assistance (100 % CDB) 2. Scheme for Seed coconut procurement and nursery maintenance. 3. Farm Insurance scheme against natural calamities launched in 18 districts – Insurance to cover damage/losses to coconut palm, nut caused by natural calamities Sum insured for a tree of 4 to 15 years is Rs. 600; for 16 to 60 years: Rs. 1,150 Bangalore: Agriculture Insurance Company (AIC), a Central Government undertaking, has launched a new farm insurance scheme for coconut growers in 18 districts of the State from this year (2010-11). It will provide insurance to coconut growers against natural calamities. Extent The scheme will be implemented in Bangalore Urban, Bangalore Rural, Chitradurga, Shimoga, Tumkur, Davangere, Mysore, Chikmagalur, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Dharwad, Ramangaram, Chickballapur and Kolar, officials of AIC, Regional Office, Bangalore, told The Hindu on Wednesday. Pilot scheme Following the successful implementation of a pilot scheme in Tiptur in Tumkur district last year, the AIC, in collaboration with Coconut Development Board (CDB) and the State Government, will launch the scheme in the districts. AIC covered 27,000 trees under the pilot project in Tiptur, which is famous for its copra. Under the scheme, a grower and the Horticulture Department of the State will contribute 25 per cent each of the premium, while the CDB will take on the remaining 50 per cent. A sum insured for a tree aged between 4 and 15 is Rs. 600 and Rs. 1,150 for those aged between 16 and 60. Karnataka ranked second after Kerala in terms of area under coconut plantation. According to the CDB, coconut trees are spread over 4.19 lakh hectares in Karnataka against 7.87 lakh hectares in Kerala. Tamil Nadu ranks third with plantations on over 3.89 lakh hectares. The State produces 2,176 million tones of nuts annually and productivity per hectare is 5,193 nuts. Target Under the insurance scheme, the AIC has set a target to cover 19,000 hectares of coconut plantations in 18 districts this year. It will target 2,500 hectares each in Tumkur and Dakshina Kannada, 1,000 hectares each in Chitradurga, Mysore, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, and 1,500 hectares each in Davangere, Chikmagalur, Chamarajanagar and Mandya districts. It would cover a few hundred hectares in rest of the districts, officials said. Coverage The coconut tree is vulnerable to vagaries of weather such as cyclone winds, floods, inundation, landslide, besides pests and diseases. The insurance would cover damage/losses to coconut palm or nut yield arising out of non-preventable natural factors. The insurance coverage and claim assessment would be on individual tree basis, officials said. Diseases Growers have been losing yield on account of various diseases such as black caterpillar, root wilt, grey leaf blight causing grave concern among the coconut growers in the State. Diseases results in low yield in affected trees of Hassan, Tumkur and the coastal districts. Top of page Contact Address Director Coconut Development Board, Regional Office-cum- technology centre Hulimavu, Bannergatta Road, Besides Horticulture Farm, Govt. of Karnataka, Bangalore South, Bangalore – 560 076 (Karnataka) Email :Cdb_blr@kar.nic.in Top of page Central Schemes Schemes of Coconut Development Board PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION OF PLANTING MATERIAL The objective of the programme is to enhance the production and supply of good quality planting materials through following component programmes. Establishment of 8 Demonstration cum Seed Production (DSP) Farms Setting up of coconut nurseries attached to the DSP Aid to registered/ private/ approved coconut nurseries Establishment of Regional coconut nursery Aid to establish nuclear seed garden in private sector / registered / cooperative societies/ farmers' association. Top of page Contact Details Coconut Development Board, Kera Bhavan, SRHS Road, Kochi, Kerala – 682011 Phone: 91-484-2376265, 2377267, 2376553 Fax: 91-484-2377902 Email: cdbkochi@dataone.in, cdbkochi@gmail.com For further details visit : www.coconutboard.nic.in EXPANSION OF AREA UNDER COCONUT This programme is intended to bring in more area under coconut in the potential belts thereby increasing the production potential in the country. The new planting assistance is given at the rate of Rs. 8,000 per hectare, which is disbursed in two equal annual installments. The programme is implemented by the Board through the Department of Agriculture/ Horticulture of various States/ UT's as the cases may be. Application forms prescribed by the Board are supplied to various implementing offices of the State Government which in turn are distributed to the eligible farmers. The Board after scrutiny of the applications, sanctions eligible subsidy and disburse the sum in the form of individual cheques/ demand drafts to the farmers through the same implementing offices. Top of page INTEGRATED FARMING FOR PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT The objective of the programme is to improve production and productivity of the coconut holdings through an integrated approach and thereby increasing the net income from unit holdings with the following component programmes. (a) Management of disease affected palms An amount of Rs.250/- per palm is provided as an incentive for removal of root wilt/ thanjavur wilt/ ganoderma and tatipaka disease advanced palms. b) Laying out of demonstration plots Financial assistance of Rs.35,000 per ha in two annual installments is provided for adoption of integrated management practices in disease affected gardens. The objective of the programme is to encourage the farmers to adopt the technology developed for the management of disease affected coconut gardens. (c) Assistance for organic manure units To promote the use of organic manure like vermicompost, coir pith compost, ordinary compost and FYM in coconut holdings. Financial assistance of Rs.20000 per unit or 50% of cost of production is provided for setting up of a unit. Top of page TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATION Financial assistance for setting up of pilot plants for the integrated coconut processing @ 50% of the cost of building / plant / machinery or maximum Rs.5 lakhs. Aid to technological research. Financial assistance to coconut based industries @ 25% of the cost of building / plant / machinery or Rs.2.50 lakhs whichever is less. Financial assistance for the introduction of Agmark / ISO Standards in coconut processing units @ 25% of the cost of laboratory equipments or Rs.1 lakh whichever is less. Grant-in-aid for the development and fabrication of machinery for coconut processing / cultivation / plant protection @ 25% of the cost or Rs.5 lakhs, whichever is less. Techno-economic studies on product diversification and byproduct utilization. Consultancy service on production, processing and marketing. Top of page MARKET PROMOTION & STATISTICS Market information and intelligence service Modernization of coconut processing by introduction of improved copra dryer / other processing machineries / equipment @ 25% of the cost of dryer / equipment or maximum Rs.10,000, whichever is less. Surveys and evaluation studies. Top of page Information and Information Technology • Production of publications in different languages including grant-in-aid to State Government / Universities for production of publications. • Production and screening of films including grant-in-aid to State Govt./Universities for production of films. • Participation in exhibitions and fairs. • Conducting seminars and workshops. • Awards to best growers, master craftsmen, industrialists, processors and exporters. • Training youths in harvesting and plant protection. • Training farmers in scientific cultivation and post harvest processing. • Training in the manufacture of coconut based handicrafts. • National award to the best research worker or workers in product / machinery / equipment development. • National award to the best research worker or workers in product / machinery / equipment development. Human Resource Development Training to improve technical skills of managerial and supervisory personnel. Training and visits to understand and appraise the technologies. Top of page TECHNOLOGY MISSION ON COCONUT Financial assistance under Technology Mission Under Technology Mission on Coconut, financial assistance @ 25% of the project cost limited to a maximum of Rs.50.00 lakhs is extended as credit linked back ended subsidy for setting up of coconut processing units for production of value added coconut products. Financial assistance is provided for market promotion of coconut products through the media, participation in exhibitions / developing / hiring display facilities in super markets, adopting attractive packaging etc. @ 50% of the project cost limiting to Rs.10.00 lakhs for individuals and Rs.25.00 lakhs to co-Operative organisations. Interested entrepreneurs can submit applications in the prescribed format along with project reports to the Chairman, Coconut Development Board, Kera Bhavan, Kochi 682 011. Top of page Coir Board Schemes REJUVENATION, MODERNIZATION AND TECHNOLOGY UPGRADATION OF THE COIR INDUSTRY (2007-08 TO 2011-12) OBJECTIVES OF THE SCHEME: (i) To modernize Coir industry by adoption of modern technology in production and processing of Coir in the spinning and weaving sectors; (ii) Upgradation of the production and processing technology for improving the productivity and quality; (iii) To generate employment in the rural areas of the Coir producing states; (iv) To provide more employment opportunities for women in the rural sector for gender empowerment; NODAL AGENCY Coir Board, Coir House, MG Road, Kochi – 682016 is the nodal agency for implementation of the scheme. CRITERIA FOR SELECTION OF BENEFICIARY The selection of beneficiary will be done on merit, on first come first served basis. Spinning Sector: Self Help Groups (SHGs) consisting of a group of eight Spinners, including their Leader, engaged in the production and processing of Coir and new SHGs shall be eligible for assistance under the Scheme. The applicant SHGs shall have minimum two cents of land of own / lease for a minimum period of 10 years and documents in proof shall be produced along with the application for assistance. Top of page SCHEME OF FUND FOR REGENERATION OF TRADITIONAL INDUSTRIES (SFURTI) Objectives of the Scheme (i) to develop clusters of traditional industries in various parts of the country over a period of five years commencing 2005-06; (ii) to build up innovated and traditional skills, improved technologies, advanced processes, market intelligence and new models of public-private partnerships, Target Sectors and Potential Beneficiaries (i) Artisans, workers, machinery makers, raw material providers, entrepreneurs, institutional and private business development service (BDS) providers engaged in traditional industries and working in selected clusters of khadi, coir and village industries, including leather and pottery. (ii) Artisan guilds, cooperatives, consortiums, networks of enterprises, self-help groups (SHGs), enterprise associations, etc. (iii) Implementing agencies, field functionaries of Government institutions/organisations and policy makers, directly engaged in traditional industries. Nodal Agencies (NAs) The following agencies shall be designated as the Nodal Agencies for the Scheme: (i) Khadi and Village Industries Commission (ii) Coir Board Top of page SCHEME FOR EXTENSION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO COIR UNITS IN THE BROWN FIBRE SECTOR TERMS AND CONDITIONS 1. Coir Units desiring to avail of the assistance under the scheme should be registered with the Coir Board under the Coir Industry (R&L) Rules 1958 and also with the Industries Department of the State in which the Unit is located. 3. The Units for extraction of coir fibre / spinning of coir yarn should be located in areas with adequate availability of coconut husk / coir fibre. 4. Three phase power supply should be available at the location of the coir extraction unit, except rope / mats & matting / corridor mat units. 5. The applications for grant of financial assistance under the scheme should be recommended by the General Manager, District Industries Centre of the region in which the unit is located. 6. The worksheds shall conform to the type design prescribed by the Coir Board. 8. There will be an overall ceiling of Rs.5 lakhs for Units producing multiple items of coir for computing subsidy. 9.The coir units which are producing multiple items like coir fibre, coir yarn, coir mats and coir matting will be treated as separate units producing these items and the ceiling of subsidy fixed for the respective items will be applied in these cases. 9. The ceiling prices of different items of machinery will be fixed by Coir Board after making a fair assessment of probable cost of all components used in the production of machinery items. Top of page HIGHLIGHTS i. Mats and matting units outside the co-operative fold shall be covered under the scheme for grant of financial assistance. ii. The rate of financial assistance under the scheme would be 25% subject to the limits cited above. iii. The subsidy under this scheme will be inclusive of any other central subsidy that may be available under any other central subsidy scheme including D.B.A. scheme. MARKETING DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE (MDA) SCHEME-DOMESTIC Coir Board with the approval of Ministry had been operating a Rebate Scheme for liquidating the stocks lying with the Manufactures/Producers and to develop the Internal Market of Coir products. The Rebate Scheme was in operation from 1986-87 to 1999-2000. Top of page Objectives of the Scheme i) To promote the sale of coir and coir products manufactured by the Co- operatives and Public Sector Enterprises committed to payment of minimum wages and other obligatory benefits to the coir workers and thereby encouraging sustained production and better employment opportunities. ii) To provide financial support on a continuing basis rounded the year to the Co-operatives and Public Sector Enterprises who undertake market development programme in Coir. iii) Under the MDA scheme, the Apex, Central primary Co-operative Societies, Public Sector Enterprises in the industry got financial support on a continuing basis round the year for the last 8 years ie, from 2000-01 to 2007-’08. QUANTUM OF ASSISTANCE The Scheme proposes to provide financial assistance to the Apex Co-operative Societies, Central Co-op. Societies, Primary Co-operative Societies, Public Sector Enterprises in the coir industry and the Showroom and Sales Depots of the Coir Board Top of page UTILISATION OF THE ASSISTANCE i) Publicity ii) Opening of New Showrooms/Sales Outlet iii) Renovation of existing Sales Outlets iv) Market study v) Setting up of Market Intelligence net work/ up-gradation of design facilities like installation of computer, Aided Design Centre, engagement of qualified designers, introduction of e-commerce facilities, computerization of Showrooms etc. vi) Godown vii) Innovative Marketing Strategies including payment of discounts. Inorder to continue the MDA Scheme during the XIth Five Year Plan period ie, from 2007-08 to 2011-‘12 the Board had already forwarded proposal to Government of India for getting its SFC/EFC approval from the Ministry Top of page MARKETING DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE SCHEME(Export) Export promotion continues to be a major thrust area for the Government. In view of the prevailing macro economic situation with emphasis on exports and to facilitate various measures being undertaken to stimulate and diversify the country s export trade, Marketing Development Assistance (MDA) Scheme is under operation through the Department of Commerce to support the under mentioned activities: (i) Assist exporters for export promotion activities abroad (ii) Assist Export Promotion Councils (EPCs) to undertake export promotion activities for their product(s) and commodities (iv) Assist Focus export promotion programmes in specific regions abroad like FOCUS (LAC), Focus (Africa), Focus (CIS) and Focus (ASEAN + 2) programmes. (v) Residual essential activities connected with marketing promotion efforts abroad. Assistance to Export promotion Councils: Export Promotion Councils (EPCs) are autonomous in administrative matters and no financial assistance is provided to them from MDA for administrative expenditure. EPCs will be allocated a budget, both for code activities and reimbursement of Individual Exporter s claims, on annual basis. The EPCs shall plan development and export promotion activities in overseas markets for export promotion of particular products, based on the findings of the desktop studies/findings of the strategy papers on potential of exports and data available with institutes like NCTI etc. Focus Area Programmes: At present 4 Focus Area programmes viz. Focus (LAC), Focus (Africa), Focus (CIS) and Focus (ASEAN+2) are under operation in the Department. EXTERNAL MARKET DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE SCHEME FOR THE PERIOD 2007-08 TO 2010-11 ABOUT THE SCHEME The trade is already aware, Coir Board with the approval of Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. Govt. of India is implementing various export promotion programmes during the current Five Year Plan period (2007-08 to 2010-2011). Top of page ACTIVITIES COVERED UNDER THE ASSISTANCE SCHEME To undertake/ participate in Buyer Seller Meet/, Trade Delegation/ Sales-cum- Study Tour, abroad; For participation in Trade Fairs & Exhibitions abroad; and For Publicity through printed materials ELIGIBILITY All Exporters with FOB turnover of less than Rs. 2 Crore worth coir and coir products in the previous year and Entrepreneurs of coir and coir products, registered with the Coir Board, would be eligible for assistance under the scheme SCHEME FOR EXTENSION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR GENERATOR SET / DIESEL ENGINE OBJECTIVE The purpose of the scheme is to give one time subsidy to fibre/ curled coir production units in the brown fibre sector to carry out production at periods of power cut/ low voltage and to ensure supply of brown fibre and curled coir to meet the requirements of rubberized coire products, coir rope, yarn and mats and matting sectors. ELIGIBILITY The unit should have a valid registration with the Coir Board under the Coir Industry (R & L) Rules 1958 The unit should have a final SSI registration with the Industries Department of the State concerned. The unit should produce a No Objection Certificate from the State Electricity Board for installation of generator set as per rules in the State concerned. The capacity of generator set should be subject to the requirement of the unit as specified in the registration certificate. A three phase power supply should be available in the unit Top of page 8. MAHILA COIR YOJANA This scheme is intended to provide self employment to rural women artisans in regions producing coir fibre. The scheme envisages distribution of motorized ratts/ motorized traditional ratts for spinning coir yarn to women artisans. The beneficiaries would be trained in the operation of the ratts under the regular training prgrammes of the Board. Source of finance Coir Board will provide 75% of the cost of the motorized ratt as one time subsidy provided the other 25% is raised by the beneficiary through voluntary organizations/ financial institutions/ own sources. The guidelines for extension of financial assistance under Mahila Coir Yojana The motorized ratt/ motorized traditional ratt purchased by utilizing the subsidy under the scheme shall conform to the specifications laid by the Board. Only one motorized ratt/ motorized traditional ratt will be given in an household. The beneficiary should register her unit with the Coir Board under the Coir Industry (R&L) Rules 1958 within 30 days after starting commercial production. A single phase power supply should be available at the location of the motorized ratt/ motorized traditional ratt. The beneficiary availing financial assistance under the scheme will have to execute a bond with the Coir Board, Cochin. Top of page ADDRESS OF THE COIR BOARD OFFICES DEALING WITH THE SCHEME 1. REJUVENATION, MODERNIZATION AND TECHOLOGICAL UPGARADTION CELL Coir Board Coir House, MG Road, Kochi 682 016 (Phone: 0484 2351807/ 0484-2373327). OFFICES: 2. Extension Service Officer, Office of the Coir Mark Scheme, Coir Board, New Model Coir Mats and Matting Co-op Society Bld., Alleppey Phone: 0477-2245325 3. Regional Officer) Coir Board, Regional Office Raja Nilayam, Mele Chowa Kannur. Phone: 0497-2729180) 4. Regional Officer Coir Board Regional Office, No 5 Alagappa Lay Out Venketesa Colony Pollachi -642 001 (Tamil Nadu) Phone: 04259-222450 5. Regional Officer,) Coir Board Regional Office, No 8 Annex Bldg Cunningham Road Bangalore -560 052 Phone: 080-22268538 6. Regional Officer, ( Coir Board Regional Office, Swaraj Nagar A C Gardens Rajamundry 533 101 Phone: 0883-2420196 7. Regional Officer, (Coir Board Regional Office, Jagamara (Udyog Puri), PO Khandagiri Bhubaneshwar- 751 030 Phone: 0674-2350078 8. Officer-in-charge, Sub Regional Office, Coir Board Hemanta Basu Bhavan, 4th Floor Kolkatta- 700 001. 9. The officer in charge Coir Board Sub Regional office Assam Small Industrial Development Complex Bamuni Maidan Gawhati -781 021 Phone: 0361-2556828. 10. Extension Service Officer, Coir Research and Extension Centre, Door No.40, Kisha Mutharamman Koil, Near R.T.Office, Tenkasi-627 811, Thirunelveli Dist. Tamil Nadu. 11. Regional Coir Development Officer, Coir Board, RCT&DC, Pillayar patti-613 043, Via. Vallam, Thanjavoor. Tamil Nadu. Top of page Coconut Palm and Yield Insurance The Agricultural Insurance Company of India limited is involved in Coconut insurance Coconut Palm & Yield Insurance is a mechanism for providing effective risk management aid to those growers who are likely to be impacted by non preventable natural factors, pests & diseases, etc. Salient Features of this policy In collaboration with Coconut Development Board, a comprehensive coconut life insurance product. Insurance based on Named perils leading to death / permanent damage to coconut palm Maximum liability is based on age of coconut palm and discounted future value Top of page Coverage The insurance cover shall cover damage / losses to coconut palm and / or nut yield arising out of non-preventable natural factors. Insurance of Nut Yield and coconut palm The insurance compensates the insured against the likelihood of diminished nut output/ yield resulting from non-preventable natural factors, such as Natural Fire & Lightning, Storm, Hailstorm, Cyclone, Typhoon, Tempest, Hurricane, Tornado, Flood, Inundation, Landslide and Pests/Diseases etc . The insurance compensates the insured in the event of total loss of the individual palm/tree in the insured plantation from the 4th year to the 60th year. In the first year, a waiting period of three months from the date of transplanting shall apply. Top of page Sum Insured For section – 1 (nut yield), Sum insured shall vary from Block to Block and is determined by the Guaranteed Yield of the Block multiplied by the previous year’s average nut price in the respective district. For section – 2, Sum insured is based on the average input cost of the plantation according to the age of the plantation. Premium The premium is determined on the basis of variability in the historical Block level nut yield Price Support Scheme National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation (NAFED) is the central nodal agency for the procurement of milling and ball copra under price support scheme of the Government of India. The price support scheme is basically to ensure farmers a minimum support price which is worked out by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) set up by the Government of India. In the procurement operation NAFED appoints state level agencies in consultation with the State Governments who in turn involve their co-operative marketing societies for the procurement at the field level. This scheme safeguards the farmers' interest especially during periods of high production and crash in price. Support Price Declared for Copra (As on 10.06.2010) (Rs per quintal) Milling Copra . . . . . Rs. 4450/- Ball Copra . . . . . . . Rs. 4700/- Dehusked coconut….. 1200 /- Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Select your topic here... :: Planting Seasons and Climate :: Varieties :: Coconut Mother Palm Selection and Nursery Management :: Main Field (Cultivation Practices) :: Irrigation Management :: Nutrient Management :: Pest and Disease management :: Harvest and Post-Harvest :: Coconut Processing :: Farm Implements :: Statistics :: Marketing :: Cost of cultivation :: FAQs :: DOs and DONTs :: Related Links Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut ::Coconut Marketing HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Coconut Marketing List of Markets in South India: (Click the respective market name given below) Tamil Nadu Karnataka Pondicherry Kerala Export & Import Export Import Marketing Information Source NAFED AGMARKNET KERAFED KARNATAKA STATE COIR DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED (KSCDC) Karnataka State Agricultural Marketing Board Domestic and Export Market Intelligence Cell (DEMIC), TNAU Dynamic Market Information (DMI) Service, TNAU, Coimbatore The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) MARKETFED Top of page NAFED The National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED) and the Coconut Development Board (CDB) have reached an understanding to rope in small-scale copra processors to market value-added coconut products under NAFED brand through the apex cooperative's marketing network. The Board will extend financial assistance to the coconut processors for establishing Quality Testing Laboratories so that they can make available the best quality coconut products. The CDB and NAFED are planning to introduce coconut products in the Commonwealth Games to be held at Delhi. NAFED is also considering supplying the procured copra to coconut millers and buy back the oil for marketing under NAFED's brand. Contact details: National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Fedration Of India Ltd. (NAFED) NAFED House, Siddhartha Enclave Ring Road, Ashram Chowk, New Delhi-110014 Telephone EPABX : 011-26340019, 26341810 Fax: 091-11-26340261, www.NAFED-india.com Top of page AGMARKNET Ministry of Agriculture has launched scheme. AGMARKNET envisages linking all important agricultural produce markets in the Country, the State Agricultural Marketing Boards & Directorates and DMI for effective information exchange. AGMARKNET has led to a nation-wide information network for speedy collection and diffusion of market information, computerization of market related information such as market fees, market charges, etc., ensuring regularity and reliability of data and increasing the efficiency in agricultural markets. To establish a nation-wide information network for collection and dissemination of market information for its efficient utilization. To ensure flow of regular and reliable data to producers, traders and consumers to derive maximum benefit of their sales and purchases. To increase the efficiency in marketing by effecting improvement in the existing market information system Contact details: Directorate of Marketing & Inspection Department of Agriculture & Cooperation Ministry of Agriculture A-Block, CGO Complex, NH-IV Faridabad (Haryana)-121 001, Email: www.agmarknet.nic.in Top of page KERAFED KERAFED is the Apex Co-operative Federation of coconut farmers in Kerala and is the largest producer of coconut oil in India. KERAFED’s coconut oil complex at Karunagapally in Kollam district is one of the biggest such units in India, with a capacity of 200 Tons per day. KERA" Brand of coconut oil is produced by kerafed from copra of the finest quality, directly procured from coconut growers in Kerala - the land of coconuts. The copra thus procured is processed using the most modern technology. In the selection and processing of copra, KERAFED employs strict quality control measures to ensure product superiority and purity. FUNCTIONS For effectively and efficiently carrying out the administrative and operational practices on a day by day basis, Kerafed sees its state of abode as three -Northern, Central and Southern regions. Each region has around 300 primary agricultural credit co-operative societies functioning, organising farmers to take up production, procurement and marketing initiatives. Contact Details: KERALA KERAKARSHAKA SAHAKARNA FEDERATION LTD. “KERA TOWER”, Water Works Compound, Vellayambalam, Vikas Bhavan (P.O), Thiruvananthapuram (Dist), Kerala State, India. Pin Code- 695 033. Tel:00- 91- (0)471- 2321660, 2326153, 2326209, 2326736 Fax:00-91-(0)471- 2326298 Kerafed@giasmdo1.vsnl.net.in www.kerafed.com Top of page KARNATAKA STATE COIR DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED (KSCDC) . Karnataka State Coir Development Corporation Limited was established in the year 1985 with the main objectives of developing Coir based industries and also to act as Catalytic Agent in developing Coir in organized and in private sector. The Corporation’s main objectives are: Ø To develop skills among unemployed for self-employment Ø To optimize the use of the existing raw material and better utilization of men and machinery. Ø To establish infrastructural facilities for promoting of coir sector Ø To provide welfare facilities and empowerment of rural women both socially and economically through special schemes. Ø To set up training-cum-production centres, common facility centres for the benefit of artisans and SSI units. Ø To provide backward & forward linkages to entrepreneurs engaged in coir activities. Ø To establish market at potential places for selling coir products. Contact details: KARNATAKA STATE COIR DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED (A Government of Karnataka Enterprise) Ground floor, V.I.T.C Building, Kasturba Road, BANGALORE – 560001 Phone No: 080 - 22865866 / 22865868 www.karnatakacoir.com Top of page Karnataka State Agricultural Marketing Board The Karnataka State Agricultural Marketing Board was established on 1st September 1972. The Board acts as a liaison agency between the Market Committees and the Government of Karnataka for all-round development of agricultural marketing in the State. The important functions of the Board are General improvement of the regulation of marketing in the state Giving aid to financially weak (or needy) market committees in the form of loans and grants. Propaganda and Publicity on matters relating to regulated marketing of agricultural produce. Training the officers and staff of MCs in the state. To co-ordinate functioning of all the market committees with the help of information service obtained by both National and International market. To arrange for safety insurance on the life of farmers and if necessary contribute towards premium payable in respect of all agriculturists in the state. To arrange or organise seminars, workshops or exhibitions on subject relating to agricultural marketing. Karnataka State Agricultural Marketing Board No. 16, 2nd Rajabhavan Road, P.B. No. 5254 Bangalore – 560001 Phone No. 080-2863969, 080-2868237, Fax:- 080-2863962 E-mail- ksamb@ksamb.com, www.ksamb.gov.in Top of page Domestic and Export Market Intelligence Cell (DEMIC), TNAU, The Market Intelligence Cell will display data on arrival and transaction of important agricultural commodities in the Regulated Markets in Tamil Nadu made available through AGMARKNET. Using this data the Market Intelligence Cell will forecast the prices of these commodities in the forthcoming months and the same will be transmitted to the Regulated markets and the farmers through web, All India Radio, television and newspapers. The prices prevailing in nearby states will also be informed to the farmers so that they will be able to get better prices for their c.rops which will help them planning crop pattern and the right time of sale of their crop output. Objectives a) to forecast the supply and demand of important agricultural commodities in Tamil Nadu. b) To forecast future prices of major agricultural commodities c) to study the state and national market situation related to important commodities. d) To disseminate the market and price information on to the farmers for planning, production and holding stocks e) to suggest policy measures to the Government of Tamil Nadu. Contact Details: Domestic and Export Market Intelligence Cell (DEMIC), CARDS, TNAU, CBE-3 Phone: 0422-6611439 6611439 directorcards@tnau.ac.in www.tnau.ac.in Top of page Dynamic Market Information (DMI) Service, TNAU, Coimbatore DMI is the collaborative effort of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), Coimbatore and India Development Gateway Initiative of C-DAC, Hyderabad to provide reliable daily market prices of perishable commodities covering major markets in and around Tamil Nadu. Daily retail and wholesale prices for 160 commodities (68 vegetables, 36 Fruits, Market profile of the thirteen markets with updated photographs Address of farmers associations, federations, regulated markets, MSP, best practices adopted by other successful farmers etc.. Access to market data of previous days / weeks / months for comparison Directorate of Extension Education Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore – 641 003 Fax: 0422 – 6611433 E-mail: portal@tnau.ac.in http://agritech.tnau.ac.in Dynamic Market Information Service for Agri – Horti Produces through www.indg.in: Credible and timely information plays a crucial role in agricultural marketing, particularly for perishables. Due to lack of proper market information channel and interference of middle man, the farmers have been exploited often and forced to sell their produce at lower price in their nearby market. The harvested produce can be sold at a premium price information of the nearest alternative markets is disseminated to farmers on demand and daily basis. They can make better decision to harvest the produce at right time and send their consignment to particular market where the market price is higher for his/her produce. The power of information and mobile technology is making things possible to get the required information at required time. Dynamic Market Information (DMI) Service is one such initiative to provide accurate market related information to farmers and related stakeholders on daily basis. What are the markets covered at present? Bangalore - K.R. Market, Chennai - Koyambedu Market, Cochin - Ernakulam Market, Coimbatore Market, Hosur - Vegetable Vendors Association Market, Kumbakonam Market, Madurai Market, Mettupalayam Market, Ottanchatram - Vegetable market, Panruti Market, Thalaivasal Market, Tirunelveli Market, Trichy - Gandhi Market. How to access the information? Every day before 2pm the price details will be available in www.indg.in/india/market_information both in Tamil and English. You can access the information through www.tnau.ac.in website also. The market analysts from different markets collect their market price reports on daily basis and with the help of experts at Directorate of SAMETI, TNAU the details are updated online immediately. Facility of accessing the required price information through your mobile by sending SMS or calling to a particular number will be available for the registered members, shortly. What are the services available in DMI presently? Daily retail and wholesale prices 160 Commodities [68 Vegetables, 36 Fruits, 37 Flowers, 11 Spices, 8 Plantation crops (COCONUT)] Market profile of the seven markets with updated photographs Address of farmers associations, federations, regulated markets, MSP, best practices adopted by successful farmers etc., Access to market data of previous days / weeks / months for comparision Who are the beneficiaries? Farmers, Farmers Associations, Farmers Federation, Agri – Extension Officers, Agri Clinics, Fruits and Vegetable Processing Units can use this service. For more details contact: Director (SAMETI) Directorate of Extension Education ,Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore – 641003. Phone: 0422 – 6611383 E-mail: portal@tnau.ac.in India Development Gateway (InDG) Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Jawaharlal Nehru Technical University (JNTU) Campus, Kukatpally, Hyderabad – 500085, Phone No – 040 – 213150115 E-mail: indg@cdac.in Top of page The Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) (APEDA) was established by the Government of India under the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority Act passed by the Parliament in December, 1985. Development of industries relating to the scheduled products for export by way of providing financial assistance or otherwise for undertaking surveys and feasibility studies, participation in enquiry capital through joint ventures and other reliefs and subsidy schemes; Registration of persons as exporters of the scheduled products on payment of such fees as may be prescribed; Fixing of standards and specifications for the scheduled products for the purpose of exports; Carrying out inspection of meat and meat products in slaughter houses, processing plants, storage premises, conveyances or other places where such products are kept or handled for the purpose of ensuring the quality of such products; Improving of packaging of the Scheduled products; Improving of marketing of the Scheduled products outside India; Promotion of export oriented production and development of the Scheduled products; Collection of statistics from the owners of factories or establishments engaged in the production, processing, packaging, marketing or export of the scheduled products or from such other persons as may be prescribed on any matter relating to the scheduled products and publication of the statistics so collected or of any portions thereof or extracts therefrom; Training in various aspects of the industries connected with the scheduled products; Such other matters as may be prescribed. 1.5 APEDA’S PRESENCE APEDA has marked its presence in almost all agro potential states of India and has been providing services to agri-export community through its head office, five Regional offices and 13 Virtual offices. Head office : New Delhi Regional offices : Mumbai, Kolkata, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Guwahati Contact Details: Agricultural Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (Ministry of Commerce Industry, Govt. of India) NCUI building 3, Siri Institutional Area,August Kranti Marg, New Delhi – 110 016 Phone : 91-11-26513204,26514572,26534186 Fax: 91-11-26526187 headq@apeda.com www.apeda.com Top of page MARKETFED THE KERALA STATE CO-OPERATIVE MARKETING FEDERATION LTD., P.B.NO. 2024, GANDHI NAGAR, KOCHI- 682 020, KERALA,INDIA. Phone: 91 - 0484 - 2203879, 2205318, 2203885, 2203880, 2203332, 2203471 Fax: 91 - 0484 - 2203375 Email: marketfedekm@dataone.in MARKETFED began as The South Malabar District Wholesale Co-operative Store Ltd. on 24th December, 1942 with the area of operation as the whole of erstwhile Malabar District. It started business on 14-1-1943. In 1958, the Store was brought under Plan Scheme and was converted into a Co-operative Marketing Society in the name of the South Malabar District Co-operative Supply & Marketing Society Ltd. On 10th August, 1960 this society was upgraded into an apex body of Marketing Co-operative Societies as "The Kerala State Co-operative Marketing Federation Limited" and the area of operation was extended to whole of the Kerala State. The leadership in the copra market was continued by Marketfed by achieving the procurement figure 13,003 tonnes valued at Rs.300 lakhs during 1994-95. Marketfed produces 'Kerajam' brand coconut oil from the finest quality copra procured through Primary Marketing Co-operative Societies in the State. The copra thus procured is processed in the most modern crushing unit. Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Harvest and Post Harvest HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Institutions 1. National Institute 2. International institute National institute Agricultural Research Station, Aliyar The Agricultural Research Station was established in 1963 and in 2002 it was renamed as Coconut Research Station. Mandate of the Research Station 1. To evolve new varieties of Coconut and Groundnut to suit in the cropping pattern of Pollachi tract and Tamil nadu. 2. To investigate suitable crops for PAP with different cropping pattern. 3. To standardize the agro techniques and to formulate IPM and IDM practices. 4. Survey and monitoring of major pests of coconut. 5. Mass production of biocontrol agents for black headed caterpillar in coconut. 6. Preventing the spread of root wilt disease of Coconut. Contact Details : The Professor and Head,Agricultural Research Station, Aliyar Nagar - 642 101 Ph : 04253-2288722, Email : arsaliar@tnau.ac.in Top of page Central Institute of Coir Technology, Bangalore CICT is a research institute of coir board an autonomous body under the control of ministry of Agro and Rural Industry , Govt. of India. It was established in 1979 and is located at Bangalore. Its main functions are Product development such as development of new products from coir fibre. Machinery development and standardization in the existing machinery to improve the productivity. Testing of Coir and Coir products in the brown coir fibre sector. Extension service and technical assistance to the coir entrepreneurs. Contact Details : Central Institute of Coir Technology, No.3A,Peenya Industrial Area Bangalore-560 058, Karnataka Ph:080-8394875, Fax: 080-3722074 Email : coir@bgl.vsnl.net.in Top of page COCONUT RESEARCH STATION, VEPPANKULAM Coconut Research Station, Veppankulam was started in the year 1958 under TNAU Objectives Collection, conservation and evaluation of coconut germplasm Development of high yielding coconut varieties/hybrids Development of crop management technologies for high yield Development of improved coconut based cropping system. Development of appropriate protection technologies against pest and diseases Transfer of technologies developed at Coconut Research Station to the farmers. Contact Details : The Professor and Head, Coconut Research Station, Veppankulam - 614 906 Thanjavur District. Ph : 04373-260205, 954373260205, Fax: 04373 52700 Email : arsvpm@tnau.ac.in, crsvpm@yahoo.co.in Top of page Coconut Research Station, Balaramapuram, Kerala The Coconut Research Station was established in 1948 at Pachalloor, near the College of Agriculture, Vellayani by the Department of Agriculture, Kerala as a scheme partly financed by the Indian Central Coconut Committee. Main functions are Standardised the agro-techniques for coconuts in red soils and Agro - techniques for coconut and coconut-based farming system in red soils Contact Details : Coconut Research Station,Balaramapuram P.O, Thiruvananthapuram-695509 Phone: 0471-2400621, Email: crsbalaram@kau.in For further details visit www.kau.edu/crsbalaramapuram.htm www.aciar.gov.au, www.cirad.fr, www.ccri.edu Central Coir Research Institute, Kavavoor, Kerala CCRI is the prime research centre of coir board and implements all the science and technology programmes for the development of coir industry and is located at Kalavoor, Kerala. Research activities are implemented under 4 project heads 1. Testing and service facilities 2. Product development and diversification of coir or coirpith 3. Development of coir machinery 4. Modernization of extraction and processing of coir Contact Details : Central Coir Research Institute,Kalavoor,Alappuzha -688522, Kerala Ph : 914772258094 Fax : 914772258415 Email:ccri@ccriindia.org National Coir Training and Design Centre was established at Alleppey, Kerala The objectives of the National Coir Training and Design Centre are development of trained manpower and evolving and popularising new designs and patterns for coir products and regular training programmes are being conducted. Contact Details : National Coir Training and Design Centre, Alleppey, Kerala Phone : 91-477-2258067 Central Plantation Crop Research Institute, Kerala The Central Plantation Crop Research Institute (CPCRI), one of the oldest institutes (established in 1916), was taken over by ICAR in 1970. Presently the mandate crops of CPCRI are coconut, arecanut and cocoa. The largest germplasm collections in the world are available on coconut, arecanut and cocoa in the Institute. The coconut based cropping systems involving companion annual/perennial crops and mixed farming models developed by the Institute are acclaimed by the farmers due to economic benefits. The most useful technologies developed on water and nutrient management, identification of drought tolerant genotypes, integrated pest and disease management are popular among the growers. Contact Details : CPCRI(Regional Station),Kayangulam,Krishanpurampost-690533 AlappuzhaDistrict, Kerala Ph : 04792-442160, Fax : 04792-445733 Email : cpcrirskgm@yahoo.com Coconut Development Board, Cochin, Kerala Coconut Development Board (CDB) is a statutory body established under the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India, cochin for the integrated development of coconut cultivation and industry in the country with focus on productivity increase and product diversification. Main functions are Providing financial and other assistance for the expansion of area under coconut. Encouraging adoption of modern technologies for processing of coconut and its products. Assisting, encouraging, promoting and financing agricultural, technological, industrial or economic research on coconut and its products Contact Details : Coconut Development Board,Kera Bhavan, SRVHS Road Kochi, Kerala - 682 011 Phone: 91-484-2376265, 2377267, 2376553 Fax: 91-484-2377902 Email: cdbkochi@dataone.in ,cdbkochi@gmail.com www.coconutboard.nic.in Top of page International institute Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR), Australia ACIAR supports coconut research in the South Pacific, and is involved in various coconut research programmes in this region. It sponsors collaborative research between Australia, Oceania and the Philippines. Centre de Coopération Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le Développement (CIRAD) , France This organization has associated experimental coconut stations in Ivory Coast and in Vanuatu and is also involved in many collaborative programmes in various countries. Cocoa and Coconut Research Institute (CCRI): Papua New Guinea The Cocoa Coconut Institute of Papua New Guinea (CCI) was formed in August 2003. CCI has two active research stations, one at Tavilo (East New Britain Province) and the other, Stewart Research Station, in Madang Province; there is also a research station on Bougainville where operations are suspended temporarily. CCI owns eight plantations totalling 3,234 ha, two hybrid seed gardens, and carries out extension operations in all Lowland provinces of Papua New Guinea. PHILIPPINE COCONUT AUTHORITY, Philippines The PHILIPPINE COCONUT AUTHORITY is the sole government agency that is tasked to develop the industry to its full potential in line with the new vision of a united, globally competitive and efficient coconut industry. Main functions are Formulate and promote a strategic and comprehensive development program for the coconut and other palm oil industry in all its aspects; Implement and sustain a nationwide coconut planting and replanting, fertilization and rehabilitation, and other farm productivity programs; Establish quality standards for coconut and palm products and by- products; and, develop and expand the domestic and foreign markets; Contact Details : Philippine Coconut Authority Elliptical Road,Diliman, Quezon City,Philippines, Ph :0632-928-4501, Email :pca_cpo@yahoo.co.ph www.pca.da.gov.p Coconut Research Center, USA The Coconut Research Center was established to educate the medical profession and the general public about the health and nutritional aspects of coconut and palm products. The primary purpose of this website is to dispel the many myths surrounding coconut and palm products, to present a more accurate and scientific viewpoint, and to aid others in their research. Coconut Research Institute of Sri Lanka Provide crop protection services for major pests and diseases of coconut Maintain an insectory for mass breeding and release of parasitoids for the control of coconut pest and weeds Systemic insecticides and sex attractants (pheromones) are supplied to prevent heavy infestations of major coconut pests Supply seed nuts for the National replanting Programme Contact Details : Coconut Research Institute of Sri Lanka Bandirippuwa Estate, Lunuwila 61150,Sri Lanka Phone: +94 31 2257419, +94 31 2255300, +94 060231993 Fax: +94 31 2257391, Email: director@cri.lk www.cri.lk Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: FAQs HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Coconut - Frequently Asked Questions Which season is suitable for coconut planting in Tamil Nadu? June – July & December – January Which season is suitable for coconut planting in Karnataka? May – June Which season is suitable for coconut planting in Kerala? Main Season – May Under irrigated Condition – April Low lying area – September Why Yield of coconut is is usually better in summer than during rainy seasons? Unlike in the annual crops the primordial initiation of the female flowers of coconut takes place 6–7 months before opening the spathe. Thus the nut that is harvested during summer was the result of primordial initiation of the female flowers which occurred during the favorable rainy season, while those nuts produced during rainy season was initiated during the summer months. Hence usually summer harvest is better What is the ideal temperature for coconut planting? A mean annual temperature of 27°C is best for vigorous growth and good yield. The yield reduces when mean temperature falls below 21°C. High temperature may cause the developing inflorescences to dry up, and limit production during those months in the year. Click here for read more... Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: DOs and DON'Ts HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Coconut - DOs and DON'Ts DOs Select good mother palm Plant the seedlings in the right season Remove seed nuts that not germinated within 5 months Transplant 9-12 month old seedlings Fill up seedling pit with soil gradually every year by cutting from sides as the seedling grows Remove soil accumulating at the collar region of the seedlings during rains Adopt drip irrigation and fertigation wherever possible Apply balanced manures and fertilizers based on soil test valve Provision of proper drainage facilities to prevent bud rot Follow drip irrigation to prevent spread of Basal Stem Rot Follow waiting period of 45 days for each harvest when chemical pesticides are used Use plant products and biocontrol agents always for pest and disease management Hybrids should be grown under well managed conditions with assured irrigation DON'Ts Trees growing closer to house holds, cattle shed, compost pits and other favourable conditions to be avoided for mother palm selection. Trees habitually producing barren nuts are to be avoided even though they may produce high yield for use as mother palm. Don’t collect immature nuts as seed nuts Avoid over crowding in storage. Avoid planting in rainy season in low lying areas. Avoid nursery in open area Avoid horizontal sowing and too close / wide planting Don’t transplant seedlings below 9 months and after 12 months of age. Don’t plough the garden frequently Excessive irrigation should be avoided Avoid non judicious use of fertilizers Avoid injuries to the stem/roots Don’t cut green leaves Don’t adopt flood irrigation Pheromone traps should not be placed in direct sunlight Do not grow hybrids in problem soils and water scarcity area. Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Knowledge Based Information on Coconut :: Related Links HOME About Us Contact Us Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Expert System for Coconut Coconut - Related Links Contacts and Further links Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore 641003. Phone: 91-422-6611200 www.tnau.ac.in Coconut Research Station, Veppankulam (Post), Nattuchalai (via) - 614 906. Thanjavur. Phone: 04373 – 260205. Coconut Research Station Aliyar Nagar, 642101 Phone: 04253 - 2288722 arsaliar@tnau.ac.in Kerala Agricultural University Mannuthy-680 656, Thrissur, Kerala, India. Phone: 91 487 2370432 Fax: 91 487 2370019 http://www.kau.edu/ Central Plantation Crops Research Institute Kasargod, - 671124, Phone: 04994-232 894-5, Fax: 91-4994-232 322, cpcri@gov.in, www.cpcri.nic.in CPCRI (RS) Kayangulam Krishanpuram post - 690 533, Alappuzha District, Kerala. Phone: 04792-442160 Fax: 04792-445733 cpcrirskgm@yahoo.com CPCRI (RS), Lakshadweep Minicoy - 673 559, Lakshadweep. Phone/Fax: 04892 22239 CPCRI (RC) Kidu Nettana - 574 230, Dakshina Kanada District, Phone/Fax: 08251 62221. It is the International Coconut Gene Bank for South Asia; Production of quality planting materials of coconut, arecanut and cocoa & maintenance of germplasm. Coconut Development Board Kerabhavan, SRVHS Road, Kochi, Kerala – 682 011, Phone: 0484 2376265, 2377267, 2376553 (India), Fax: 0484 2377902 cdbkochi@dataone.in / cdbkochi@gmail.com http://coconutboard.nic.in Coir Board Coir House, post box no.1752, M.G. Road, Kochi Phone: 91-484-2351807, 2351788, 2351954, 2354397 Fax: 91-484-2370034 http://coirboard.nic.in Central Coir Research Institute (CCRI) Kalavoor, Alapuzha -688522 Phone: 91-477-2258094, Fax: 91-477-2258415, ccri@ccriindia.org, http://www.ccriindia.org/ Central Institute of Coir Technology, No 3A, Peenya Industrial Area, Bangalore -560058, Karnataka, Phone: 080-8394875, Fax: 0880-3722074, coir@bgl.vsnl.net.in, www.ccriindia.org/portal/cict/index.htm Asian and pacific Coconut Community, 3rd floor, line building, Jl.H.R.Rasuna Said Kav B7, Kuningan, Jakarta -12920, Indonesia, apcc@indo.net.id Coconut Research Station, Balaramapuram, Kattachalkuzhy, Balaramapuram P.O., Thiruvananthapuram - 695 509, Phone: 0471-2400621, 471-2400625, crsbalaram@kau.in http://www.kau.edu/crsbalaramapuram.htm Agricultural Research Station, Arsikere 573 103, Hassan District, Karnataka. Top of page Knowledge Based Information on Coconut Planting Seasons and Climate Varieties Mother Palm Selection & Nursery Mgt. Main Field (Cultivation Practices) Irrigation Management Nutrient Management Pest and Disease management Harvest and Post-Harvest Coconut Processing Farm Implements Statistics Marketing Cost of cultivation FAQs DOs and DONTs Related Links Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
