Botany of Paddy HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Paddy Related Web Links Website About the site http://irri.org/ International Rice Research Institute, Philippiness http://agritech.tnau.ac.in Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Agritech Portal www.tnagrisnet.tn.gov.in Department of Agriculture,Tamil Nadu http://www.iaripusa.org/ Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI),Pusa,New Delhi http://www.icar.org.in/ Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) http://www.angrau.net/ Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University http://www.kau.edu/ Kerala Agricultural University http://www.tnau.ac.in/ Tamil Nadu Agricultural University http://www.uasd.edu/ University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad http://www.uasbangalore.edu.in/ University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore http://www.apeda.com Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority http://agmarknet.nic.in Agricultural Marketing Information Network http://www.brri.gov.bd/ Bangladesh Rice Research Institute(BRRI) http://www.crri.nic.in/ Central Rice Research Institute(CRRI) http://plantquarantineindia.org/links.htm Plant Quarantine Organization of India http://ppqs.gov.in Plant Protection Information Network http://www.tamilnaduimti.org/contact.htm http://www.tamilnaduimti.org/contact.htm http://www.agricoop.nic.in Department of Agriculture & Cooperation http://www.agriculture-industry-india.com Indian Agro Industry http://www.ciat.cgiar.org International Center for Tropical Agriculture http://www.wmo.int/pages/index_en.html World Meteorological Organization http://severe.worldweather.wmo.int/ Severe Weather Information Centre http://www.imdchennai.gov.in/ Regional Meteorological Centre,Chennai http://www.ndmindia.nic.in/ National Disaster Management http://www.sristi.org/dmis/ Disaster Management Information System http://www.nidm.net/ National Institute of Disaster Management http://www.crida.ernet.in/ Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture http://www.icrisat.org/ International Crop Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics http://www.cswcrtiweb.org/ Central Soil and Water Conservation Research and Training Institute http://www.cssri.org/ Soil Salinity Research Institute http://www.iaswc.com/ Indian Society of Soil and Water http://www.dolr.nic.in/ Department of Land Resources http://www.cswcrtiweb.org/ Central Soil And Water Conservation Research And Training Institute http://www.icid.org/ International Commission on Irrigation & Drainage http://www.indiawaterportal.org/ India Water Portal http://www.wrmin.nic.in/ Ministry of Water Resources http://www.cwc.nic.in/ Central Water Commission http://www.tamilnaduimti.org/ Irrigation Management Training Institute www.groundwatertnpwd.org.in/indexnew.htm State Ground and Surface Water Resources Data Centre,Chennai http://www.fathisoftware.com/ Centre for Human and Natural Resource Development http://www.watershed.nic.in/ Watershed Programmes Monitoring Information System http://www.tn.gov.in/crop/districttables.htm Season and Crop Report of Tamil Nadu http://www.tn.gov.in/ Government of Tamil Nadu http://www.fao.org/ Food and Agriculture Organization http://www.beta.undp.org/undp/en/home.html United Nation Development Programme http://www.sare.org/ Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education (SARE) http://www.agnic.org/ Agriculture Network Information Centre http://www.kerala.gov.in/ Government of Kerala http://goidirectory.nic.in/index.php Government of India Directory http://fert.nic.in/ Department of Fertilizers http://www.fertindia.com/ Fertilizer Association of India http://www.indiaseeds.com/nsc_company.htm National Seeds Corporation http://www.krishiworld.com Agriculture Portals http://www.ikisan.com http://www.kisankerala.com http://www.indiaagronet.com http://www.agriwatch.com http://www.agribizindia.com http://www.uttamkrishi.com http://www.kribhco.org Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Botany of Paddy HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Botany Climate Statistics Area, Production and yield of paddy in the world 2008 - 09 Area, Production and yield of paddy in the major states of India 2009 - 10 Area, Production and yield of paddy in Tamil Nadu 2008 - 09 Area, Production and yield of paddy in Kerala 2005 - 06 Area, Production and yield of paddy in Karnataka 2006 - 07 Area, Production and yield of paddy in India based on Rice Ecosystem Botany of Paddy Rice is one of the most important food crops in the world and it is the staple food for over 2.7 billion people. In India, area under rice is 44.6 m ha with total output of 80 million tonnes (paddy) with an average productivity of 1855 kg/ha. It is grown in almost all the states. West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Tamilnadu, Kerala, Punjab, Maharashtra and Karnataka are major rice growing states and contribute to total 92% of area and production. Kingdom: Plantae Division: Magnoliophyta Class: Liliopsida Order: Cyperales Family: Gramineae Genus: Oryza Species: Sativa Subspecies: Indica Common name: Paddy in English, Nel in Tamil, Nellu in Malayalam, Bhatta in Kannada. Top Root Rice form a fibrous root system consisting of seminal, nodal and lateral roots. As the rice grain germinates, the radical pierces its way out through the coleorhizae and the enveloping glume and forms the seminal root. Lateral roots are formed from the seminal root. As the seedlings begin to grow, adventitious roots arise from the basal nodes. When seedlings are pulled out, most of the roots get torn off but very soon fresh roots develop. The root system in rice varies much between the different varieties. Root development is promoted by organic manures and phosphatic manures. Clayey soil seems to be ideal for the normal development of the roots. Nodal roots develop on the higher nodes and help the plant to absorb the food material from the surrounding water. Top Culm or Stem The culm, or jointed stem of the rice, is made up of a series of nodes and internodes The stem of rice popularly known as the haulm or the culm, is generally erect, cylindrical, hollow at the internodes and solid at the nodes. The number and length of internodes vary with the different varieties. There may be ten to twenty internodes. In deep water rice varieties and in floating types, the culms have generally very long internodes. Top Tillers The node is the solid portion of the culm. The node or nodal region bears a leaf and a bud. The bud is attached to the upper portion of the node and is enclosed by the leaf sheath. The bud may give rise to a leaf or a tiller. Early tillers arise from the main culm in an alternate pattern. Primary tillers originate from the lowermost nodes and give rise to secondary tillers. Secondary tillers produce tertiary tillers. Each tiller is an independent plant. The maximum production of tillers is generally attained thirty to forty days after transplanting. Top Leaf The node or nodal region of the culm will bear a leaf. Leaves are borne alternately on the culm in opposite directions. One leaf is produced at each node. Varieties differ in the number of leaves produced. The topmost leaf below the panicle is the flag leaf. The flag leaf contributes largely to the filling of grains because it supplies photosynthetic products, mainly to the panicle The leaf sheath and leaf blade are continuous. A circular collar joins the leaf blade and the leaf sheath. The leaf sheath is wrapped around the culm above the node. The swelling at the base of the leaf sheath,just above the node,is the sheath pulvinus. It is sometimes incorrectly referred to as the node. Leaf blades are generally flat. Varieties differ in blade length, width, thickness, area, shape, color, angle and pubescence. With many parallel veins on the upper surface of the leaf, the underside of the leaf blade is smooth with a prominent ridge in the middle; the midrib Most leaves possess small, paired ear-like appendages on either side of the base of the blade - called auricles. Auricles may not be present on older leaves. Another leaf appendage is the ligule, a papery membrane at the inside juncture between the leaf sheath and the blade It can have either a smooth or hair-like surface. The length, color, and shape of the ligule differ according to variety. Top Panicle The terminal component of the rice tiller is an inflorescence called as panicle. The inflorescence or panicle is borne on the uppermost internode of the culm. The panicle bears rice spikelets, which develop into grains. The panicle base often appears as a hair like ring and is used as a dividing point in measuring culm and panicle length. The panicle base is often called the neck. The panicle axis is continuous and hollow except at the nodes where branches are borne. The swellings at the panicle axis where the branches are borne are referred to as the panicle pulvinus. Each node on the main panicle axis gives rise to primary branches which in turn bears secondary branches. Primary branches may be arranged singly or in pairs. The panicles bear spikelets, most of which develop into grains. These spikelets are borne on the primary and secondary branches. The spikelet is the basic unit of the inflorescence and panicle. It consists of the pedicel and the floret . The floret is borne on the pedicel. The rudimentary glumes are the laterally enlarged, cup like apex of the pedicel. The rudimentary glumes are the lowermost parts of the spikelet. During threshing, the rudimentary glumes are separated from the rest of the spikelet. The sterile lemmas are small, bractlike projections attached to the floret. The rachillae is a small axis that bears the single floret. It is between the sterile lemmas and the floret Top Spikelets The spikelets are carried on small rachillae at the ends of the branches of the panicle. The spikelet in rice is single flowered enclosed by the lemma and palea. There are six stamens, in two whorls of three each, the filaments being very slender and delicate and having sudden exertion of growth at the time of anthesis. The anthere are linear. The pistil has a single ovary, two styles each with a plumose and laterally exerted stigma ovary, two styles each with a plumose and laterally exerted stigma of different shades of purple. The overy is tricarpellary, single celled, single ovuled and with basal placentation. In most cases the plumose stigmas are dusted with pollen when they emerge out as the dehiscence of the anthers takes place in many varieties just at the time of opening. Though self-pollination is the rule, natural cross-pollination also occurs, varying from 0.1 to 4.0 percent. Top Grain The ovule after fertilization develops into the seed with its coats completely fused together with the developing ovary wall or pericarp. Pericarp of fruit coat: The pericarp is made up of distinct layers of quadrangular cells which form the Epicarp. These cells have slight thickening and are followed by cells which are much compressed and form the Mesocarp consisting of two or three layers. The Endocarp is a single layer of tube cells. The color in the rice grain is found in the pericarp layer in the mature stage. The seed coats: Due to the pressure brought out by the developing seed on the pericarp, the testa and tegmen become much pressed down and out of shape. A few layers of such cells below the pericarp can be diagnosed as the integuments of seed coats. The aleurone layer: A prominent layer of rectangular cells which contain protein lies next to the seed coats. This layer is known as the aleurone layer. The layer in rice is not coloured unlike in case of maize. The endosperm: the entire mass of tissue below the aleurone layer is made up of cells which contain plenty of starch grains and these form the endosperm. The embryo: the scutellum has an upper free part which has a fleshy projection known as the ventral scale. Below this upper ventral scale and almost at the middle of the free part there is another outgrowth which can be called as the inner ventral scale and theis inner ventral scale is peculiar to rice embryos only. Top Climate Climate and Soil requirement Rice is a crop of tropical climate. However, it is also grown successfully in humid to sub-humid regions under subtropical and temperate climate. Rice is cultivated in almost all types of soils with varying productivity. Under high temperature, high humidity with sufficient rainfall and irrigation facilities, rice can be grown in any type of soil. The major soil groups where rice is grown are riverine alluvium, red-yellow, red loamy, hill and sub-montane, Terai, laterite, costal alluvium, red sandy, mixed red, black, medium and shallow black soils. Top Latitude and Altitude Rice cultivation in the world extends from 39°S latitude (Australia) to 45°N latitude (Japan) and 50°N latitude (China). Most extensive rice growing areas are within 45°N of the equator. In India rice is grown under widely varying conditions of altitude and climate. Rice cultivation in India extends from 8 to 35°N latitude and from sea level to as high as 3000 metres elevation. Top Temperature Rice being a tropical and sub-tropical plant, requires a fairly high temperature, ranging from 20° to 40°C. The optimum temperature of 30°C during day time and 20°C during night time seems to be more favorable for the development and growth of rice crop. Top Growth stages and optimum temperature ranges Stage Optimum temperature (°C) Germination 20-35 Seedling emergence 25-30 Rooting 25-28 Leaf elongation 31 Tillering 25-31 Panicle initiation 15-30 Anthesis 30-33 Ripening 20-25 Top Sunshine Sunlight is very essential for the development and growth of the plants. The yield of rice is influenced by the solar radiation particularly during the last 35 to 45 days of its ripening period. Bright sunshine with low temperature during ripening period of the crop helps in the development of in the grains. 300 cal /cm-2 /day is minimum required. Better yield is obtained when the Solar Radiation is 500-700 cal /cm-2 /day. Top Rainfall Rainfall has direct impact on deciding the ecosystem. Rice requires abundant rainfall, ranging from 150 cm to 200 cm. Paddy withstands water logged conditions. Grown as low-land crop with standing water as well as upland crop under rainfed conditions. Requires a rainfall of 125 cm during vegetative stage. Heavy downpour at anthesis and flowering leads to sterility No standing water at ripening stage. Top Relative Humidity Relative humidity (RH) directly influences the water relations of plant and indirectly affects leaf growth, photosynthesis, pollination, occurrence of diseases and finally economic yield. The incidence of insect pests and diseases is high under high humidity conditions. High RH favours easy germination of fungal spores on plant leaves. Majority of pest and diseases are commonly seen during rainy season while aphids, thrips, scales, mealy bugs and mites are relatively more severe during summer. Blast disease of rice is common in winter season. The incidence of gall midge is common during kharif as compared to rabi due to high RH requirement of the pest particularly in the early growth stages. Moderate Rainfall, Relative humidity of around 80% and a wide range of atmospheric temperature of 20-33°c appear to be highly conducive to the Brown plant hopper. Top Wind Wind is normally unimportant factor in rice production. A light wind is said to be beneficial as it stirs air and transports CO2 to the leaf canopy. Very strong winds do occur during cyclones and lead to severe damage. During pollination, strong wind may induce sterility and increase the number of abortive endosperms. Strong wind during flowering phase may not be conducive for rice crop. High wind speed during flowering may cause pollen dehydration and consequent spikelet sterility. Top Statistics Area, Production and yield of paddy in the world Source : www.indiaagristat.com 2008-09 data Area, Production and yield of paddy in the major states of India Source : www.indiaagristat.com 2009-10 data Area, Production and yield of paddy in Tamil Nadu Source : www.indiaagristat.com 2008-09 data Area, Production and yield of paddy in Kerala Source : www.indiaagristat.com 2005-06 data Area, Production and yield of paddy in Karnataka Source : www.indiaagristat.com 2006-07 data Area, Production and yield of paddy in India based on rice ecosystem Source : Indian Farming, Oct 2006 - Special Issue Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Expert System for Paddy HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Botany and Climate Season and Varieties Rice Ecosystem Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Rice is one of the three most important food crops in the world and it is the staple food for over 2.7 billion people. In India, area under rice is 44.6 m ha with total output of 80 million tonnes (paddy) with an average productivity of 1855 kg/ha. It is grown in almost all the states. West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Tamilnadu, Kerala, Punjab, Maharashtra and Karnataka are major rice growing states and contribute to total 92% of area and production. Paddy Related Web Links Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Schemes and Institutes FAQs Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Karnataka Varieties HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Short Duration Medium Duration Long Duration Drought Resistant varieties Paddy varieties of Karnataka Short duration varieties Season : Kharif (April – September), Rabi (October – December), Summer/Zaid (January – March) Variety Duration(Days) Suitable Zone Special Features Madhu 120-125 North Eastern Transition Zone, North Eastern Dry Zone and Northern Dry Zone High yielding, tolerant to cold. Grains are medium slender. It is moderately resistant to stem borer, bacterial leaf blight and blast. It is suitable for summer planting. It has the yield potential of 55-60 quintals per hectare. Mandya Rani 130-135 North Eastern Transition Zone, North Eastern Dry Zone, Northern Dry Zone and Northern Transition Zone It is a semi-dwarf, high tillering, short duration variety. It has super fine grain. Jothi 125-130 Northern Transition Zone Suitable for Rain fed Uplands and grains are long bold. Mahaveer 110-115 Coastal Zone It is suitable for upland of gall midge endemic areas of South Kanara and North Kanara in kharif season. It has a dormancy of 15 days after harvest. It has a medium grain and the kernel is red in colour. It is resistant to gall midge. This variety is liked by the farmers in the coastal region. It has an yield potential of 30 q/ha. Shakthi 120-125 Coastal Zone A dwarf variety with semi compact habit. It bears short bold grains. It has resistance to gall midge and is drought tolerant and blast tolerant. Amrut 105-110 Northern Transition Zone Suitable for Rain fed Uplands and grains are long bold. Top Medium duration varieties Season : Kharif (April – September), Rabi (October – December), Summer/Zaid (January – March) Variety Duration(Days) Suitable Zone Special Features Jaya 140-150 North Eastern Transition Zone, North Eastern Dry Zone, Northern Dry Zone, Northern Transition Zone and Hill Zone Dwarf (82 cm), grains: long bold, white, moderately susceptible to Bacterial leaf blight, Stem borer, Rice tungro virus, Gall midge and resistant to blast, Yield: 50-60 Q/ha. Rasi 125-130 North Eastern Transition Zone, North Eastern Dry Zone and Northern Transition Zone Suitable for rain fed upland condition, Semi dwarf (90-95 cm), grains: medium bold, white, resistant to blast, moderately resistant to Rice tungro virus. Yield: 56 Q/ha. Prakash 140-145 North Eastern Transition Zone, North Eastern Dry Zone and Northern Dry Zone It is an improved high yielding variety, suitable for kharif and summer cultivation under tank, well and canal irrigation. This variety is resistant to green Ieaf hopper and moderately resistant to stem borer, bacterial leaf blight and susceptible to brown plant hoppers, gall midge and tungro virus. It yields about 40 quintals per hectare in Kharif and 50-60 quintals per hectare in summer. IR – 20 130-145 North Eastern Transition Zone, North Eastern Dry Zone and Northern Dry Zone Semi dwarf (100-110 cm), grains-medium slender, moderately resistant to Bacterial leaf blight, Green leaf hopper, Rice tungro virus and Stem bore. Yield: 50-55 Q/ha. Puspha 125-135 North Eastern Transition Zone, North Eastern Dry Zone and Northern Dry Zone Medium duration, high yielding variety with long slender grain. Mangala 105-130 North Eastern Transition Zone, North Eastern Dry Zone, Northern Dry Zone, Northern Transition Zone and Hill Zone High yielding, short duration variety, tolerant to cold. Karna 130-135 North Eastern Transition Zone, North Eastern Dry Zone, Northern Dry Zone, Northern Transition Zone and Hill Zone It is suited for Cauvery basin canal irrigated areas. It supplements IR-20, with medium slender, white kernelled and translucent. It has general level of tolerance to pests and Increases. It has a yield potential of 42 q/ha. Avinash/Gama - 318 135-145 Northern Dry Zone and Northern Transition Zone MTU1001/Vijetha 130-135 Northern Transition Zone Semi-dwarf (115 cm), grains: Medium slender tolerant to Brown plant hopper and blast; Yield: 97 Q/ha. Pragathi 130-135 North Eastern Transition Zone, North Eastern Dry Zone and Northern Dry Zone A semi-dwarf rice culture of IR-20. It bears medium slender, straw coloured grains. The rice is white kernelled. It is a medium tillering variety with compact plant habit and recommended for Kharif and summer plantings in irrigated areas. Mandya Rani 140-145 Northern Transition Zone Rainfed Shallow Low Land rice with Tall nature, grains are medium slender; Yield: 55-60 Q/ha. Phalguna 135-140 Coastal Zone It is a semi-dwarf variety with green stem and foliage. It bears long slender grain, yields higher and resistant to gall fly. No apeculous or basal pigmentation discernible. Top Long duration varieties Season : Kharif (April – September) Variety Duration(Days) Suitable Zone Special Features Abilash 155-165 Northern Transition Zone and Hill Zone High yielding, tolerant to cold. Grains are medium slender. It is moderately resistant to stem borer, bacterial leaf blight and blast. It is suitable for summer planting. It has the yield potential of 55-60 quintals per hectare. Intan 160-170 Northern Transition Zone and Hill Zone Resistant to blast disease, suitable for hilly areas of the State. Hemavathi 160-170 Hill Zone Recommended for cultivation in low lands of Hill Zone Taluks of Chikamagalur, Shimoga and Hassan districts. Tolerant to Leaf and neck blast. Grain is white and medium fine similar to Intan. Produces grain yield of 24.2 q/ha on par or 10% more yield than Intan under low blast pressure conditions, 33% higher yield under temporary submergence conditions and has better cooking quality than Intan. Top Drought resistant varieties Kumeru is a drought resistant rice variety cultivated in the hilly areas of Karnataka during rainy season. Chare is a drought resistant variety grown in Karnataka, which gives long straw that can be used as cattle feed or put to some other alternative use. Kayame is a traditionally grown rice variety of Karnataka, which is resistant to both drought and alkalinity, and it gives tasty boiled rice. Moradda is a red, tasty, big size rice variety that is resistant to both drought and alkalinity. It grows faster and is cultivated during three seasons in Karnataka. Kalame is an alkalinity hardy variety grown in coastal areas and it has medicinal properties. Jholaga is a salinity resistant rice variety, which is traditionally grown in coastal regions of Karnataka. This also gives long straw. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Kerala Varieties HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Short Duration Medium Duration Long Duration Scented and Medicinal paddy Paddy varieties of Kerala Short duration varieties Season : Virippu (I crop / autumn), Mundakan (II crop / winter), Puncha (III crop / summer) Variety Duration(Days) Bran Color and Grain Type Characteristics Hraswa (Cul 24-20) 75-80 Red medium and bold Extra-short duration variety. Ideal as a contingent variety for areas where there is crop loss. Susceptible to leaf folder. Raised only as direct sown crop. Kattamodan-Tall (PTB 28) 110-115 Red For uplands (modan). Tolerant to drought. Karuthamodan-Tall (PTB 29) 105-110 Red For uplands (modan). Tolerant to drought. Chuvannamodan-Tall (PTB 30) 105-110 Red For uplands (modan). Tolerant to drought. Annapurna (PTB 35) 95-100 Red short and bold Suitable for direct seeding. Susceptible to blast, sheath blight and Brown plant hopper. Suited for I and III crop seasons. Rohini (PTB 36) 85-105 White long and bold Performs well during virippu season. Not recommended for mundakan season. Suitable for direct seeding. Triveni (PTB 38) 100-105 White long and bold Tolerant to Brown plant hopper. Susceptible to blast and sheath blight. Jyothy (PTB 39) 110-125 Red long and bold Moderately tolerant to Brown plant hopper and blast; susceptible to sheath blight; suitable for direct seeding, transplanting and special systems of Kole and Kuttanad. Swarnaprabha (PTB 43) 105-110 White long and bold Suited for upland (modan) and for all the three seasons in the wet lands. Resistant to blast, susceptible to sheath blight and bacterial blight. Moderately resistant to stem borer. Mattatriveni (PTB 45) 100-105 Red medium and bold Tolerant to Brown plant hopper, susceptible to blast and sheath blight. Suitable for I and III crop Kairali (PTB 49) 110-115 Red long and bold Moderately resistant to blast, blight, gall midge and leaf folder. Can be cultivated in all the three seasons. Kanchana (PTB 50) 105-110 Red long and bold Suitable for Kole and Kuttanad regions. Resistant to blight, blast, stem borer and gall midge. Suitable for all seasons. Karthika (MO 7) 105-125 Red long and bold Suitable for growing in all the three seasons. Moderate resistance to sheath blight, sheath rot and BPH. A good first crop component in koottumundakan Aruna (MO 8) 100-110 Red medium and bold Tolerant to Brown plant hopper and stem borer, moderately resistant to gall midge, sheath blight and sheath rot. Dormancy up to one month. Specifically suited to wet season. Makom (MO 9) 100-110 Red short and bold Moderately resistant to pests like Brown plant hopper, stem borer, gall midge, leaf folder and diseases like sheath blight and sheath rot. Dormancy up to one month. Specifically suited for wet season. Can be cultivated in all the three seasons. Remanika (MO 15) 100-105 Red short and bold Dwarf, medium tillering, resistant to BPH and medium resistant to gall midge. Revathy (MO 17) 105-110 Red medium and bold Dwarf, medium tillering, resistant to BPH and medium resistant to gall midge. Dormancy up to 3 weeks. Suited to all the three seasons especially to additional crop of Kuttanad. Krishnanjana (MO 19) 105-110 Red medium and bold Medium tillering, resistant to BPH and dormancy up to 3 weeks, suited to all seasons especially to kari lands of Kuttanad, tolerant to iron toxicity. Bhagya (Kayamkulam-2) 100 Red Suitable for first crop season in Onattukara and eastern lateritic region. Drought resistant in the early growth phases. Moderately tolerant to blight, stem borer, leaf roller and case worm. Onam (Kayamkulam-3) 95 Red Drought tolerant in the early growth phases. Moderately resistant to blight, sheath blight and blast. Suited for dry sowing in the first crop season of Onattukara region. ASD 17 100-105 White short and bold Good grain quality and high yielding. Ahalya 90-100 Red Good cooking quality, tolerant to leaf folder and moisture stress in the early growth phase. Harsha (PTB 55) 105-110 Red long and bold Suitable for direct seeding in rainfed lowlands. Moderate resistance to blast and moisture stress. Varsha (PTB 56) 110-115 Red long and bold Suitable for direct seeding and transplanting in irrigated lowlands. Moderate resistance to blue beetle. Kunjukunju Varna (VK-1) 110-115 Red short and bold Photo-insensitive, moderately tolerant to major pests like gall fly, leaf folder, whorl maggot and stem borer. Adapted for double cropped areas of Palghat, Thrissur and Ernakulam districts as direct seeded or transplanted crop. Leaf sheath and apiculus are purple pigmented. Kunjukunju Priya (VK-2) 105-110 Red short and bold Photo-insensitive, moderately tolerant to major pests like gall fly, leaf folder, whorl maggot, and stem borer. Adapted for double cropped areas of Palghat, Thrissur and Ernakulam districts as direct seeded or transplanted crop. This is a non-pigmented variety. Chingam 95-100 Red short and bold Photo-insensitive semi-tall variety suitable for first crop season in Onattukara. Moderately resistant to sheath blight and brown leaf spot. Top Medium duration varieties Season : Virippu (I crop / autumn), Mundakan (II crop / winter), Puncha (III crop / summer) Variety Duration(Days) Bran Color and Grain Type Characteristics Jaya 120-125 White long and bold Very high yield potential, highly susceptible to Brown plant hopper, plant hopper and other pests. Aswathy (PTB 37) 120-125 White long and bold Suitable for dry sowing in the first crop season. Sabari (PTB 40) 130-135 Red long and bold Susceptible to sheath blight Bharathy (PTB 41) 120-125 Red long and bold Tolerant to Brown plant hopper, moderately resistant to blast, suitable for dry sowing. Suvarnamodan (PTB 42) 110-115 White Suitable for dry sown conditions, medium tall, moderately resistant to pests and diseases. Jayathi (PTB 46) 120-125 White Resistant to Brown plant hopper, green leaf hopper, leaf folder, blast and bacterial leaf streak, non-lodging, semi-tall, suitable for all the three seasons. Aathira (PTB 51) 120-130 Red short and bold Semi-tall, non-lodging, moderate resistance to blast and blight diseases and Brown plant hopper. Suited for I and II crop seasons and also for hilly tracts. Aiswarya (PTB 52) 120-125 Red long and bold Suitable for modan. Resistant to blast and blight diseases. Resistant to Brown plant hopper. Suited for first and second crop seasons. Bhadra (MO 4) 120-125 Red Suitable for puncha season in Kuttanad region. Low susceptibility to pests and diseases. Tolerant to Brown plant hopper. Weakly photosensitive. Asha (MO 5) 115-120 Red Suitable for both seasons of Kuttanad. Moderately tolerant to pests and diseases. Tolerant to Brown plant hopper. Pavizham (MO 6) 115-120 Red short and bold Easy to thresh. Fairly resistant to Brown plant hopper. Moderately resistant to stack burn and sheath rot and fairly resistant to sheath blight. Remya (MO 10) 110-120 Red long and bold Moderately resistant to Brown plant hopper, gall midge, sheath blight and sheath rot, semi-tall variety. Suitable for all the three seasons. Seed dormancy up to one month. Kanakom (MO 11) 120-125 Red medium and bold Resistant to Brown plant hopper and moderately resistant to stem borer. Resistant to diseases like rice tungro virus and blast. Moderately resistant to bacterial blight. Semi-tall variety suitable for all the three seasons. Renjini (MO 12) 115-120 Red medium and bold Dwarf, resistant to blast and Brown plant hopper. Pavithra (MO 13) 115-120 Red medium and bold Dwarf, medium tillering, resistant to Brown plant hopper and GM Biotype-5. Panchami (MO 14) 115-120 Red medium and bold Dwarf, medium tillering, resistant to Brown plant hopper and GM Biotype-5. Uma (MO 16) 115-120 Mundakan 120-135 Virippu Red medium and bold Dwarf, medium tillering, non-lodging, resistant to Brown plant hopper and GM Biotype-5. Dormancy up to 3 weeks. Suited to three seasons especially to additional crop season of Kuttanad. Karishma (MO 18) 115-120 Red medium and bold Dwarf, medium tillering, resistant to Brown plant hopper and medium resistant to Gall Midge. Suited to three seasons especially to kari lands to Kuttanad; tolerant to iron toxicity. Vyttila-1 (Chootupokkali-Tall) 115 Red Suitable for Pokkali areas. Vyttila-2 (Cheruvirippu Tall) 125-130 Red Bold Suitable for virippu season in the saline areas of Ernakulam and Alappuzha districts Vyttila-3 110-115 Red Suitable for virippu season in the coastal saline areas of Ernakulam and Alappuzha districts. Vyttila-4 120-125 Red Suitable for virippu season in the coastal saline areas (Pokkali ecosystem) and other flood prone areas and deep water situations. Vyttila-5 115-120 Red Tall, moderately lodging, tolerant to major diseases and pests except Bacterial leaf blight, leaf scald, stem borer, leaf folder and rice bug. Arathy (ACV-1) 120-135 Red Seed dormancy up to one month. Recommended for southern region for virippu season for delayed sowing and for situations where over-aged seedling may have to be planted. Moderately resistant to sheath blight, sheath rot and Brown plant hopper. ASD 16 110-115 White short and bold Good grain quality, high yield Top Long duration varieties Season : Mundakan (II crop / winter) Variety Duration(Days) Bran Color and Grain Type Characteristics Lakshmi (Kayamkulam-1) 175-180 Red Suitable for second crop season. Moderately resistant to leaf roller, blast, blight and sheath blight, fairly resistant to stem borer. Dhanya (Kayamkulam-4) 160-165 Red Photosensitive, moderately resistant to stem borer, gall midge, sheath blight and blast. Reshmi (PTB 44) 150-160 Red Suitable for growing in the second crop as the mundakan for Koottumundakan system. Resistant to leaf folder and tolerant to gall midge. Neeraja (PTB 47) 140-150 White Moderately resistant to leaf folder, resistant to blast and moderately susceptible to sheath blight, non-lodging, photosensitive, dormant, suited to flood prone and waterlogged areas and poonthalpadams. Nila (PTB 48) 160-180 Red short and bold Photosensitive, capable of producing good grain and straw yields under low fertilizer application. Suitable for karinkora cultivation. Highly resistant to thrips, Brown plant hopper and moderately resistant to gall midge, stem borer and sheath blight. Can be cultivated in areas where water supply is assured till the middle of January. Mangalamahsuri (PTB 53) 140-145 Red Medium and Slender Multiple resistant, tolerant to iron toxicity and waterlogging. Good response to low fertilizer regimes. Karuna (PTB 54) 140-145 Red long and bold Multiple resistant, tolerant to iron toxicity, good response to low fertilizer regimes, susceptible to brown spot. Specific to II crop season. Kottarakkara-1 (Cheradi) 140-145 Red For waterlogged deep soils Makaram (KTR 2) 160-165 Red short and bold Photosensitive; suitable for eastern lateritic region; II crop component in koottumundakan system Kumbham (KTR 3) 165-175 Red short and bold Photosensitive, tolerant to lodging; suitable for eastern lateritic region; II crop component in koottumundakan system Pankaj (Semi-tall) 135-140 White For ill-drained deep soils, susceptible to leaf blight. H4 (Tall) 125-145 Red bold For ill-drained deep soils Mahsuri (Tall) 125-145 White Fine rice Excessive shedding of grains at maturity, susceptible to blast. Deepthi 150-160 Red Semi-tall, photo-insensitive, moderately resistant to blast, leaf folder and stem borer, moderately resistant to drought. Ponni 140-145 White medium and slender Fine grain quality rice. White Ponni 135-140 White medium and slender Fine grain quality rice. Ponmani 160-165 White short and bold Resistant to Brown plant hopper and high yield potential Pranava 130-135 White medium and slender Multiple resistant. Suitable for the black cotton soils of Chittoor. Swetha 140-145 White short and bold Suitable for black cotton soils of Chittoor taluk as a transplanted II crop Dhanu 150-160 Red Short and bold Photosensitive variety suitable for the second crop in Onattukara. Tolerant to sheath blight, brown leaf spot and stem borer. Top SCENTED AND MEDICINAL RICES Season : Mundakan (II crop / winter) Variety Duration(Days) Grain Type Suitability for cultivation Gandhakasala 150-180 Straw colored, small, round grains, aromatic with white kernel Suitable for transplanting during Khariff Jeerakasala 150-180 Straw colored, slightly longer and slender grains, aromatic with white kernel Suitable for transplanting during Khariff Velumbala 180 White, long slender grains, aromatic with white kernel Suitable for transplanting during Khariff Chomala 165-180 Small, slender reddish straw colored grains, Aromatic with white kernel Suitable for direct seeding in uplands Kayama 150-180 Straw colored, small, round grains, aromatic with white kernel Suitable for transplanting during Khariff Kothampalarikkayama 120-130 Small, slender black grains. Aromatic with white kernel. Suitable for Khariff Pookkilathari 130-135 Small, slender , straw coloured grains, Aromatic with white kernel. Suitable for transplanting in "palliyals" (Single crop terracelands) during Rabi. Njavara 70-75 Plants tall, lanky lodging Panicles are short to medium in length. Yellow and black glumed types occur. The yellow type hasgolden yellow lemma and palea while it is black in the other Seed coats are brown in colour, endosperm non waxy and grains non scented Suitable for Kharif crop in uplands and Summer crop in wetlands Chennellu 120-125 Yellow and red glumed types occur. The yellow type has golden yellow grains with purple apiculus while the red type has bright red grains. Seed coats are brown in colour, endosperm non waxy and grains non scented Red type is grown in coconut gardens during Kharif season while yellow type is grown in wetlands during Kharif and rabi Kavungin-poothala 150-160 Photosensitive, Long slender white grains Suitable for rabi crop Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Schemes HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US State Level Schemes Central Schemes Schemes State Level Schemes Tamil Nadu I. Agriculture Schemes 1. Assistance to the farmers for quality seed production A. Seed Multiplication Scheme of Paddy Welfare Scheme Components and itsbenefits Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits Officer to be Contacted In order to encourage the farmers and to offset the special efforts taken bythem incentive is provided for all the seeds produced by the farmers. All farmers who produce and supply the seeds to the Department of Agriculture on Contract basis are eligible to enroll and register their seed farms under this programme. Assistant Agricultural officer at the Village Level Paddy Premium for the production of Certified class seeds Rs.2/- per Kg of seed Preference will be given to farm women groups, Farmers Interest Groups. Assistant Seed Officer / Deputy Agricultural Officer / Agricultural Officer at the Block Level The required source seed will be supplied by the Department of Agriculture through the Agricultural Extension Centres on payment. The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block Level The farmers should follow the guidelines given by the field level functionaries / Seed Certification officers to maintain the Quality. The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District Level 2. Assistance to farmers for increasing the crop productivity Macro Management Mode Schemes Cereals Development Programme - Paddy a.Quality seed Distribution through seed village concept: A subsidy of Rs.5 per kg of paddy seeds will be allowed in the sale price at the time of purchase at the Agricultural Extension Centers or 50% cost whichever is less All farmers are eligible to avail the subsidy under this scheme. Preference will be given to Small/Marginal women farmers and 30% flow will be assured to SC/ST Assistant Agricultural officer at the Village Level b. Demonstrations on System of Rice Intensification: Assistance for improved seed, Conoweeder, Marker, Bio fertilizers and Micro Nutrient Mixture - Subsidy of Rs 3000 per demonstration of 0.4 Ha each. This Scheme is in operation in all the districts of the state except Chennai, The Nilgiris and NFSM rice implementing districts of Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Sivagangai, Ramanathapuram and Pudukkottai. Assistant Seed Officer / Deputy Agricultural Officer / Agricultural Officer at the Block Level c. Integrated Pest Management Demonstration cum Training @30 farmers per training (Farmers Field School) - A lumpsum provision of Rs.17,000 includes Honororium, Training material and conduct of field days The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block Level. The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District Level 3. Tamil Nadu Agricultural Modernization and Water bodies Restoration Management (IAMWARM ) a.Demonstrations Paddy SRI (1 ha ) 100% subsidy (or) Rs.6,000/- All farmers through Water Users’ Association in the respective phase I (2007-08), Phase II (2008-09), Phase III (2009-10) are benefited under this scheme. Assistant Agricultural officer at the Village Level Assistant seed officer /Deputy Agricultural Officer / Agricultural Officer at the Block Level The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block Level The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District Level 4. Seed Village Scheme a.Distribution of Foundation / Certifiedseeds of Paddy at 50% cost for the production of quality seeds by farmers All the farmers in the State who are willing to produce quality seeds from their lands for their own use and for distribution to other farmers. Assistant Agricultural officer at the Village Level b.Three Days Training on seed production technology in three important phases of the crops to farmers who receive seeds from the department @ 50% cost for production of quality Seeds. 50 farmers per training totally 8000 training per year. Assistant seed officer /Deputy Agricultural Officer / Agricultural Officer at the Block Level c. Supply of Storage Bin to the farmers. Rs.3000/- for 20 qtl bin and Rs.1500/- for 10 qtl. bin (or) 33% cost of bin The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block Level Rs.2000/- for 20 qtl bin and Rs.1000/- for 10 qtl. bin (or) 25% cost of bin The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District Level 5. National food security mission rice operated in Nagapattinam,Pudukkottai, Ramnad, Sivaganga and Tiruvarur districts: Inputs for the Demonstration on improved package of practice @ Rs.2500/- Demo of 0.4 ha or 50% cost whichever is less Inputs for the Demonstration on SRI @ Rs.3000/- Demo of 0.4 ha or 50% cost whichever is less Inputs for the Demonstration on Hybrid rice technology @ Rs.3000/- demo of 0.4 ha or 50% cost whichever is less Production incentive Hybrid rice seeds @ Rs.1000/-qtl Distribution subsidy of Hybrid rice seeds @ Rs.2000/-qtl or 50% cost whichever is less Incentives for Micro Nutrients @ Rs.500/-ha or 50% cost whichever is less Incentives for Conoweeder and otherFarm Implements @ Rs.3000/- implement per farmer or 50% cost whichever is less Plant Protection Chemicals and Bio-Pesticides @ of 50% subsidy or Rs.500/- ha whichever is less. Distribution of Transplanter at Rs.70,000/-(or) 50% cost whichever is less All farmers in the National Food Security Mission Rice districts. 33% of the allocation to SF / MF / Women farmers. 16% of the total allocation to SC farmers and 8% to ST farmers. Assistance limited to five hectare per farmer. All farmers in the National Food Security Mission Rice districts. 33% of the allocation to SF / MF / Women farmers. 16% of the total allocation to SC farmers and 8% to ST farmers. Assistance limited to five hectare per farmer. Assistant Agricultural officer at the Village Level Assistant Seed Officer / Deputy Agricultural Officer / Agricultural Officer at the Block Level The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block Level The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District Level Top II. Farm mechanization schemes 1. Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Name of Scheme : Agricultural Mechanisation Programme Project Area : All Districts (Except Chennai) Details of Works : Subsidy assistance is provided to farmers for procuring Agricultural Machinery and implements such as Tractors, Power Tillers, Self propelled Paddy Transplanters, Self propelled paddy reapers, Rotavator, Cultivator, Disc Plough, Chisel Plough etc., Benefits offered (Subsidy) : 25% of the cost of machinery / implements or the ceiling limit prescribed by Government of India for each machinery / implement, whichever is less. Officer to be approached : Assistant Executive Engineer, AED in the Revenue Division. Executive Engineer, AED in the District. Superintending Engineer, AED in the Region. Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, Nandanam, Chennai-35. Phone 2435 2686 , 2435 2622 Top 2. Land Development Scheme Area of operation Name of Scheme : Land Development Scheme Area of operation Area of operation : All Districts Details of Works : Land Shaping Land Levelling Land Reclamation Ploughing, Puddling Paddy Harvesting by Combine Harvester. Benefits offered (Subsidy) : Agricultural Engineering Department hires out machinery to (Subsidy) farmers as per Government approved hire charges and execute the above works. (Hire charges of machinery are furnished below) Eligibility : Farmers of all categories Time-limit for Implementation : Machinery are allotted on priority basis. Officer to be approached : Assistant Executive Engineer , AED in the Revenue Division. Executive Engineer , AED in District. Superintending Engineer , AED in the Region. Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, Nandanam, Chennai-35. Phone 2435 2686 , 2435 2622 Top Details of hire charges of Land Development Machinery Sl. No. Name of Machinery Hire Charges ( Rs. per hour- With Diesel) 1 Tractor 265 2 Bulldozer 670 3 Tractor mounted Combine Harvester 780 4 Class crop Tiger Combine Harvesters rubber track type 1130 3. National Agriculture Development Programme (NADP) Name of Scheme : National Agriculture Development Programme (NADP) Project Area : All Districts (except Chennai) Details of Works : Sl.No Component Item of works 1 Agricultural Mechanisation a) Introduction of newly developed agricultural1 machinery / implements b) Popularising conventional machinery / implements. 2 Dry Land Development Plastic lined farm pond with portable sprinkler unit b) Unlined farm pond c) Compartmental Bunding 3 Establishment of land resources inventory and GIS data base Digitisation of cadastral maps of potential crop growing villages Benefits offered (Subsidy) : 50% subsidy assistance is provided to farmers for purchasing newly developed agricultural implements such as mini combine harvester, multi crop thrasher, paddy transplanter , and 25% subsidy assistance is provided to farmers for purchasing conventional machinery / implements such as power tiller, rotavator, cultivator, offset disc harrow, disc plough etc., Top 4. Rain Water Harvesting and Runoff Management Programme and NABARD assisted Rain Water Harvesting Programme Rain Water Harvesting and Runoff Management Programme Project Area : All Districts (Except Chennai and Nilgiris) NABARD assisted Rain Water Harvesting Programme Project Area: Kanchipuram, Thiruvallur, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Vellore, Salem, Erode, Namakkal, Trichy, Perambalur, Karur, Dindigul, Theni, Virudhunagar, Ramnad, Sivaganga, Thoothukudi, Coimbatore and Nilgiris. Details of Works : Percolation ponds Major, medium and minor check dams Farm Ponds Rejuvenation of unused wells Village tanks / Ooranies. Benefits offered (Subsidy) : 100% grant is provided on cost of works taken up in community lands. However, the beneficiaries are required to contribute 10% of the cost of works (it is 5% in case of SC/ST) in cash which will be deposited in the name of the Village Development Association / Watershed Association for future maintenance of the assets created. 90% subsidy is provided on cost of works in patta lands and the remaining 10% is collected as beneficiary share. Officer to be approached : Assistant Executive Engineer, AED in the Revenue Division. Executive Engineer , AED in the District. Superintending Engineer , AED in the Region. Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, Nandanam, Chennai-35. Phone 2435 2686 , 2435 2622 Top 5. Replacement of old Pumpsets with new Pumpsets. Name of Scheme : Replacement of old Pumpsets with new Pumpsets. Project Area : All Districts (except Chennai.) Details of Works : Replacement of old, inefficient electrical pumpsets with new BIS pumpsets and Renewal of Electrical accessories. Benefits offered(Subsidy) Description For SC/ST Farmers For Other Farmers Pump sets below 5 HP Subsidy of Rs.3500 or50% of the cost of the pump set Whichever is less Subsidy of Rs.2500 or 25% of the cost of the pump set. Whichever is less. Pump sets of 5 HP &above Subsidy of Rs.6000 or 50% of the cost of the pump set Whichever is less Subsidy of Rs.5000 or 25% of the cost of the pump set. Whichever is less. Cost of renewal of panel and other electrical accessories Subsidy of Rs.1500 or 50% of the cost of panel Whichever is less. Eligibility : The farmers having agricultural wells with old, inefficient Electrical pump sets in all the districts of Tamil Nadu (except Chennai) Officer to be approached : Assistant Executive Engineer , AED in the Revenue Division. Executive Engineer, AED in the District. Superintending Engineer, AED in the Region. Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, Nandanam, Chennai-35. Phone 2435 2686 , 2435 2622 Top Promoting SRI in 40000 Ha. through conduct of demonstrations a. Supply of seeds and other key inputs @ Rs.800/- per ha b. Supply of Conoweeder and Marker @ Rs.2200/- per ha Farmers of all districts adopting SRI except Chennai, The Nilgiris and Kanyakumari. Distribution of Conoweeder and Marker to 3000 Women Self Help Groups Supply of 5 Conoweeders and one Marker @ Rs.7400/- per women group at free of cost for custom hiring to ensure easy accessibility of implements 3000 TANWABE / SHG Women Groups of all districts except Chennai and The Nilgiris Kerala 1. Crop Insurance Scheme: Kerala Details of Crop Insurance Scheme Particulars Description Name of the Scheme Crop Insurance Scheme Sponsored by State Government Funding Pattern 100% by State Government. Ministry/Department Agriculture Department Description Farmers in the State face production risks on various counts, such as drought, floods, etc. A crop insurance scheme has been in operation in the State, with contribution from the participating farmers, covering 25 major crops grown in the state since 1995. The present scheme aims at revamping the crop insurance programme making it viable so as to cater to risk coverage of small and marginal farmers. Outlay of the scheme is Rs.100.00 lakhs. Beneficiaries Family,Community,other, Other Beneficiaries Farmers enrolled in this insurance scheme Benefits Benefit Type Material,Loan,Subsidy, Eligibility criteria Any farmer. How to Avail By contacting the Agriculture department and local self government institutions Reference URL http://www.keralaagriculture.gov.in Top 2. National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS): Kerala Details of National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) Particulars Description Name of the Scheme National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) Sponsored by Both: Central & State Government Funding Pattern 50:50 sharing basis between central and state government. Ministry/Department Agriculture Department Description This scheme aims at tackling the issue of production risk faced by the agricultural sector. Rs.1.50 crores allocated for the scheme will be utilised as 50 percent contribution of the State (excluding salary component) towards the NAIS scheme implemented by the Agricultural Insurance Corporation with crops such as paddy, banana, tapioca, ginger, turmeric and pinepaple. It is proposed to spent Rs. 0.25 crores of the allocation of the scheme towards 25% share of premium for initiating coconut crop insurance scheme since the National Agricultural Insurance Company has initiated a pilot project on coconut crop insurance in Kerala. The total allocation of the NAIS for 2009-10 is Rs. 200 lakhs Beneficiaries Individual,Community,other, Other Beneficiaries Any farmer covered under this insurance programme Benefits Benefit Type Subsidy, Eligibility criteria A Farmer dealing with the farming of paddy, banana, tapioca, ginger, turmeric and pineapple How to Avail By contacting the Agriculture department, local self government institutions Reference URL http://www.agriculture-industry-india.com/agro-programme-schemes/credit3.htm Top 3. Schemes for Integrated Pest Management System: Kerala Details of Schemes for Integrated Pest Management System Particulars Description Name of the Scheme Schemes for Integrated Pest Management System Sponsored by State Government Funding Pattern 100% by State Government Ministry/Department Agriculture Department Description Of late, the share of high yielding varieties of seeds has increased by leaps and bounds in the total quality of seeds used in the State for cultivation of food crops. These high yielding varieties are susceptible to various pests. It is in this context that the agriculture department of Government of Kerala has proposed a scheme to establish a full-fledged system of pest surveillance in a phased manner, to cover major crops of the State. The thrust of the scheme will be on biocontrol measures from a long-term perspective. The main objectives of the scheme are: 1.To keep pests and diseases of crops below Economic Threshold level by adopting an integrated pest management practice. 2.Constant pest surveillance and monitoring to ascertain pest population 3.Creating awareness among farmers on the prominent pests and diseases, which cause severe damage to crops and suggest measures to prevent them. The total outlay of the scheme is Rs. 50.00 lakh Beneficiaries other, Other Beneficiaries Farmers Benefits Benefit Type Material, Eligibility criteria Any farmer. How to Avail By contacting the Department of Agriculture, and the concerned Panchayat. Reference URL http://www.keralaagriculture.gov.in Top 4. Sustainable Development of Rice Based Farming System: Kerala Details of Sustainable Development of Rice Based Farming System Particulars Description Name of the Scheme Sustainable Development of Rice Based Farming System Sponsored by State Government Funding Pattern 100% by State Government. Ministry/Department Agriculture Department Description The Scheme will be concentrated in three major rice-growing tracts of the State for augmenting rice productivity. The ultimate objective of the project is to increase average productivity of rice to around 3 tonnes per hectre.The project is proposed to be implemented through Kudumbasree, self help group of rural women, local self governments in association with research institutions and financial institutions.Group farming samithies/Padasekhara samithies will constitute the nucleus of the programme. The total outlay of the scheme is Rs.2300.00 lakhs. Beneficiaries Individual,Family,Community,Women,Children, Benefits Benefit Type Material,Subsidy, Eligibility criteria Any farmer engaged in cultivation of rice. How to Avail Through Agriculture Department, Local Self Government Institutions Reference URL http://www.keralaagriculture.gov.in 5. Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY): Kerala Details of Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) Particulars Description Name of the Scheme Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) Sponsored by Central Government Funding Pattern The fund has been provided to the State as 100% Grant. Ministry/Department Agriculture Department Description This is a special central assistance scheme of the Government of India and implemented by the Government of Kerala, primarily aimed at evolving a strategy to rejuvenate the agriculture sector of the State. The objectives of the scheme, in general, are to provide incentives to the State for increasing public investment in agriculture and allied sectors, and in particalr, (1)to ensure that agriculture for the State and districts are prepared based on agro-climatic conditions, availability of technology and natural resources; (2)to make sure that local needs/crops/priorities are better reflected in the agricultural plan of the State; (3)to reduce yield gaps in important crops through focused interventions; (4)Maximisation of returns to farmers in agriculture and allied sectors; (5)to bring about quantifiable changes in production and productivity of various components of agriculture and allied sectors by addressing them in a holistic manner.The allocation for the scheme is Rs.6011.10 lakhs Beneficiaries Individual,Family,Community,Women, Benefits Benefit Type Material,Loan,Subsidy, Eligibility criteria The Department of Agriculture has to prepare Agriculture plans and State Agriculture plans based on the guidelines of the Planning Commission through the State Planning Board. How to Avail Through the Agriculture Department and Local Self Governments. Reference URL http://agricoop.nic.in/Rkvy/Rkvyfinal-1.pdf (138 KB) (PDF file that opens in a new window) Top 6. Schemes under Marco Management Rice development Schemes proposed for rice crop is given below: - 1. Seed production programmes 2. Land and other infrastructure development 3. Assistance for purchase of HYV seed 4. Assistance for soil ameliorants 5. Plant protection in rice 6. Promotion of INM in rice 7. Assistance for seedicides. Top Karnataka Sl No Name of the Scheme Scheme Details How To Apply 1. Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) Aims at achieving 4% annual growth in the agriculture sector during the XI Plan period, by ensuring a holistic development of Agriculture and allied sectors. Contact Ministry of Agriculture or concerned State Agriculture Departments http://agricoop.nic.in/Rkvy/Rkvyfinal-1.pdf 2. National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) The aim of the scheme is to provide insurance coverage and financial support to the farmers in the event of failure of any of the notified crop as a result of natural calamities, pests and diseases. The scheme also encourages the farmers to adopt progressive farming practices, high value in-puts and higher technology in agriculture. This helps stabilize farm incomes, particularly in disaster years. The scheme can be availed by contacting the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation or local self government institutions http://des.kar.nic.in/cis/Guidelines.pdf 3. Minikit Programme for Rice The objective of the scheme is to increase the productivity by popularizing the use of newly released hybrid/high yielding varieties and spread the area coverage under location specific high yielding varieties/hybrids. The benefits of the scheme reach the farmers through State Departments of Agriculture. http://agricoop.nic.in/dacdivision/crop1.htm#d2 4. Promotion of Integrated Pest Management The scheme aims to popularize Integrated Pest Management (IPM) approach among farming community to promote use of bio pesticides by imparting training to master trainers, extension workers and farmers. Scheme is implemented in 21 States and one Union Territory with 26 Centres. Persons to be contacted The Plant Protection Adviser Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine & Storage, Govt. of the India, N.H. IV, Faridabd-121001 (Haryana), Fax No. 0129-5412125, PH. No. 01295413985 01295413985 http://agricoop.nic.in/dacdivisi n/pp1.htm 5. Gramin Bhandaran Yojna The main objectives of the scheme include creation of scientific storage capacity with allied facilities in rural areas to meet the requirements of farmers for storing farm produce, processed farm produce and agricultural inputs. Also, promotion of grading, standardization and quality control of agricultural produce to improve their marketability. the scheme also aims at prevention of distress sale immediately after harvest by providing the facility of pledge financing and marketing credit by strengthening agricultural marketing infrastructure in the country. This scheme can be availed by a group of financial institutions/banks listed under the scheme. http://agmarknet.nic.in/amrscheme/rural head.htm 6. Pledge Loan Scheme This scheme is in force since 1994-95 in 132 markets of the State. Loans up to Rs. 50,000-00 or 60% of the value of the agricultural produce may be paid to the farmers against the pledge of their agricultural produce. No interest will be charged for the first 30 days. Interest at the rate of 8% and 12.5% will be charged for the next two successive months .The scheme is for a short period of 90 days http://maratavahini.kar.nic.in/apmc_eng/e_schemes.htm Top Central Schemes 1. Institutional Credit Facilities Institutional credit is the vital factor in agricultural development. The National Agriculture Policy targeted annual growth rate of 4 percent over the 10th plan period. The Task Force on Agricultural Credit has given the main emphasis on adequate and timely credit support to the farmers, particularly small and marginal farmers for adoption of modern technology and improved agricultural practices. The institutional credit disbursed through co-operatives, Commercial Banks and Regional Rural Banks. The institutional credit to Agriculture is offered in the form of short term, medium term and long term credit facilities: Short term and medium term loans Name of Scheme Eligibility Objective/Facilities CropLoan All categories of farmers. To meet cultivation expenses for various crops as short-term loan. This loan is extended in the form of direct finance to farmers with a repayment period not exceeding 18 months. Produce Marketing Loan All categories of farmers. This loan is given to help farmers to store produce on their own to avoid distress sale. This loan also facilitates immediate renewal of crop loans for next crop. The repayment period of the loan does not exceed 6 months. Kisan Credit Card Scheme (KCCS) All agriculture clients having good track record for the last two years. This card provides running account facilities to farmers to meet their production credit and contingency needs. Minimum credit limit is Rs. 3000/-. Credit limit is based on operational land holding, cropping pattern and scale of finance. The Kisan Credit Card is valid for 3 years subject to annual review. It also covers personal insurance against death or permanent disability for maximum amount of Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 25,000 respectively. Long term loan Name of Scheme Eligibility Objective/Facilities Agricultural Term Loan All categories of farmers (small/medium and agricultural labourers) are eligible, provided they have necessary experience in the activity and required area. The banks extend this loan to farmers to create assets facilitating crop production/income generation. Activities covered under this scheme are land development, minor irrigation, farm mechanization, plantation and horticulture, dairying, poultry, sericulture, dry land / waste land development schemes etc. This loan is offered in the form of direct finance to farmers with a repayment span not lass than 3 years and not exceeding 15 years. Top 2.Integrated Cereal Development Programme (ICDP)-Rice Sponsored by Central Government Funding Pattern - 100 % central sponsored Description The major programme components covered under the ICDP-Rice are as under : i) Field Demonstration ii) Farmers Field School iii) IPM Demonstration iv) Seed Distribution v) Farmers Training vi) Sprayer P.P. Equipment vii) Hand Tool viii) Farm Implements ix) Power Tiller Eligibility criteria - All Categories of Farmers Beneficiaries - Individual,Family,Community,Women,other Details - Subsidy is available under the Scheme on various components including agriculture implements such as Plant Protection Equipments. Subsidy is also available on certified quality seeds and IPM demonstrations. Subsidy per farmer or per activity should not exceed 25% of the cost or the present subsidy level approved under the schemes, whichever is lower How to Avail - Selection of beneficiaries to be done through recommendation of District Agriculture Officer. Top 3. Minikit Programme for Rice: Ministry of Agriculture Sponsored by Central Government Funding Pattern The programme is 100% funded by the Government of India. Ministry/Department Department of Agriculture &amp; Cooperation Description The objective of the scheme is to increase the productivity by popularising the use of newly released hybrid/high yielding varieties and spread the area coverage under location specific high yielding varieties/hybrids. Eligibility criteria All states are eligible to avail this scheme. How to Avail The benefits of the scheme reach the farmers through State Departments of Agriculture 4. Minimum support price scheme Minimum price for a product,established by a government and supported by payments to producers in the event that the market price falls below the specified minimum price. A price support scheme can also be an agreement set in order by the government, where the government agrees to purchase the surplus of at a minimum price. For example, if a price floor were set in place for paddy, the government would be forced to purchase the resulting surplus from the paddy farmers (thereby subsidizing the farmers) and store or otherwise dispose it. The price support scheme is basically to ensure farmers a minimum support price which is worked out by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) set up by the Government of India. In the procurement operation, National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation -NAFED appoints state level agencies in consultation with the State Governments who in turn involve their co-operative marketing societies for the procurement at the field level. This scheme safeguards the farmers' interest especially during periods of high production and crash in price. Commodity Variety Minimum support price (2010-11) Paddy Common 1000 Grade 'A' 1030 Top 5. National Agricult-ural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) Beneficiaries: Scheme is available to all farmers loanee and non-loanee both irrespective of the size of their holding. Objectives/facilities: To provide insurance coverage and financial support to the farmers in the event of failure of any of the notified crop as a result of natural calamities, pests and diseases attack. To encourage the farmers to adopt progressive farming practices, high value in-puts and high technology in agriculture. To help to stabilize farm incomes, particularly in disaster years. General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC) is the Implementing Agency. Sum insured may extend to the value of threshold yield of the area insured. Provides subsidy of 50 percent in premium of small and marginal farmers. The subsidy will be phased out over a period of 5 years on sunset basis. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Tamil Nadu Varieties HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Sub Topics Short Duration Medium Duration Long Duration Ruling Varieties New Varieties Traditional Varieties Paddy Varieties of Tamil Nadu Short duration varieties Duration (Days) Suitable seasons Suitable varieties 90 - 120 days Navarai, Sornavari, Kar, Kuruvai, Late Thaladi ADT 36, IR 50, IR 64, IR 36, MDU 3, CO 47, ASD 16, ASD 17, ADT 37, TPS 2, ADT 39, ASD 18, MDU 4, PMK 2, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, ADT 43, TKM 11, ADT (RH)1, ADT (R) 45, TKM (R) 12, TRY (R) 2, PMK (R) 3, ADT (R) 47, ADT (R) 48. Medium duration varieties Duration (Days) Suitable seasons Suitable varieties 120-140 days Early Samba, Samba, Late Samba, Thaladi/Pishanam, Late Thaladi, Late Pishanam. IR 20, Bhavani, IR 50, CO 43, White Ponni, ADT 38, TPS 2, TKM 10, TPS 3, ASD 19, TRY 1, CO 46, CORH 2& ADT(R) 46. Top Long duration varieties Duration (Days) Suitable seasons Suitable varieties 140-180 days Early Samba, Samba, Late Samba, Thaladi/Pishanam, Late Pishanam. Ponmani, PY 4(JAWAHAR), ADT(R) 44 Top Ruling varieties in Tamil Nadu Short duration varieties IR-64, CO-47, ADT-36, ADT-37, ADT-43, ADT-45, ADT-47, ADT-48, ASD-16, ASD-17, ASD-20 and MDU-5 Medium duration varieties IR 20, IR 36, CO 43, CO 46, ADT 38, ADT 39, ADT 46, Bhavani, MDU 3, MDU 4, TRY 1, ASD 19, TPS 2, TPS 3 and white ponni Long duration varieties Ponmani(CR 1009), BPT 5204, and ADT 44 Hybrids CORH 1, CORH 2, CORH 3, ADTRH 1 Ruling Varieties - Short Duration IR 64 Parentage:IR 5657-33-2-1/ IR 2061-465-1-5-3 Duration(Days):115 – 120 Average yield(Kg/ha) :6146 1000 Grain weight(g) :23.1 Grain type : Long slender Habit : Semi dwarf Rice Color : White Top CO 47 Parentage – IR 50 / CO 43 Duration (Days) – 110-115 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5832 1000 grain weight (g) – 20.6 Grain type – Medium slender Habit – Erect Rice Color – White Special features – Resistant to Blast Top ADT 36 Parentage – Triveni x IR 20 Duration (Days) –110 Average yield (Kg/ha) –4000 1000 grain weight (g) – 20.6 Grain type – Medium Habit – Erect Rice Color - White Special features – Resistant to Blast and Brown Plant Hopper Top ADT 37 Parentage – BG 280-12/ PTB 33 Duration (Days) –105 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6200 1000 grain weight (g) – 23.4 Grain type – Short bold Habit – Semi dwarf, Semi erect Rice color - White Special features – Resistant to many pest and diseases Seed dormancy – 60 days Top ADT 43 Parentage – IR 50/White ponni Duration (Days) –110 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5900 1000 grain weight (g) – 15.5 Grain type – Medium slender Habit – Semi dwarf Rice color - White Special features - Resistant to Green Leaf Hopper, high tillering and fine rice Top ADT 45 Parentage – IR 50/ADT 37 Duration (Days) – 110 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6100 1000 grain weight (g) – 17.5 Grain type – Medium slender Habit – Semi dwarf, Erect Rice color – White Special features - Resistant to Gall midge and moderately resistant to Brown Plant Hopper Top ADT 47 Parentage – ADT 43/Jeeragasamba Duration (Days) –118 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6200 1000 grain weight (g) – 13.5 Grain type – Medium slender Habit – Semi dwarf and erect Rice color – White Special features – Resistant to stem borer, White Backed Plant Hopper and sheath blight. Top ADT 48 Parentage – IET 11412/ IR 64 Duration (Days) – 94-99 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 4800 1000 grain weight (g) – 22.0 Grain type – Long slender Habit – Semi dwarf and erect Rice color – White Special features - Resistant to Green Leaf Hopper, Gall midge and Stem borer Top ASD 16 Parentage – ADT 31/CO 39 Duration (Days) – 110 - 115 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5600 1000 grain weight (g) – 24.2 Grain type – Short Bold Habit – Semi dwarf erect Rice color – White Special features – Medium tillering, Resistant to Blast Top ASD 17 Parentage – ADT 31/RATNA/ASD 8/IR 8 Duration (Days) – 95-101 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5422 1000 grain weight (g) – 23.8 Grain type – Short bold Habit – Semi dwarf, slightly open Rice color – White Special features – Moderately resistant to Brown Plant Hopper, Susceptible to gall midge Top ASD 20 Parentage – IR 18348/IR25863/IR 58 Duration (Days) – 110 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6000 1000 grain weight (g) – 22.08 Grain type – Long Slender Habit – Erect Rice color – White Special features – Resistant to many pest and diseases Top MDU 5 Parentage – O.glaberrima x Pokkali Duration (Days) – 95 - 100 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5000 1000 grain weight (g) – 21.1 Grain type – Medium slender Habit – Erect Rice color – White Special features – Resistant to Drought, suitable for dry and transplanted condition Top Ruling Varieties - Medium Duration IR 20 Parentage – IR 262 X TKM 6 Duration (Days) – 130 - 135 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5000 1000 grain weight (g) – 19 Grain type – Medium slender Habit – Semi-dwarf Rice color – White Special features – Resistant to stem borer Top IR 36 Parentage – IR 1561-228/1 IR 244/O.nivara/CR 94-13 Duration (Days) – 120 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5000 1000 grain weight (g) – 21 Grain type – Medium Habit – Dwarf Erect Rice color – White Special features – Resistant to Brown Plant Hopper, Moderately resistant to stem borer and Bacterial Leaf Blight Top CO 43 Parentage – Dasal x IR 20 Duration (Days) – 135 - 140 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5200 1000 grain weight (g) – 20 Grain type – Medium slender Habit – Erect Rice color – White Special features – Tolerant to saline and alkaline soil Top CO 46 Parentage – T7/IR 20 Duration (Days) – 125 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6000 1000 grain weight (g) – 23.5 Grain type – Long Slender Habit – Tall erect Rice color – White Special features – Resistant to Brown Plant Hopper Top ADT 38 Parentage – IR 1529-680-3-2/ IR 4432-52-6-4/ IR 7963-30-2 Duration (Days) – 130 - 135 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6200 1000 grain weight (g) – 21 Grain type – Long Slender Habit – Semi dwarf, erect Rice color – White Special features – Resistant to many pest, Susceptible to Bacterial Leaf Blight, Seed viability period is low Top ADT 39 Parentage – IR 8/IR 20 Duration (Days) – 120 - 125 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5000 1000 grain weight (g) – 18 Grain type – Medium slender Habit – Semi dwarf Rice color – White Special features – Resistant to Blast and sheath rot Top ADT 46 Parentage – ADT38 / CO 45 Duration (Days) – 135 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6656 1000 grain weight (g) – 23.8 Grain type – Long Slender Habit – Erect, semi-dwarf Rice color – White Special features- Resistant to Stem borer and Leaf folder Top Bhavani Parentage – Peta x BPI 76 Duration (Days) – 130 - 135 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5000 1000 grain weight (g) – 21.5 Grain type – Long Slender Habit – Medium tall Rice color – White Top MDU 3 Parentage – IR 8/W 1263 Duration (Days) – 120 - 125 Average yield (Kg/ha) - 5000 1000 grain weight (g) – 23.1 Grain type – Long Slender Habit – Semi dwarf Rice color – White Special features - Highly resistant to Gall Midge, resistant to Brown Plant Hopper, leaf blast, moderately resistant to White Backed Plant Hopper, Brown Spot and neck blast Top MDU 4 Parentage – AC 2836/Jagannath Duration (Days) – 120 - 125 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5900 1000 grain weight (g) – 22.9 Grain type – Long slender Habit – Erect, tall Rice color – White Special features - cold tolerant Top TRY 1 Parentage – IR578-172-2-2/BR-1-2-B-1 Duration (Days) – 135-140 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5255 1000 grain weight (g) – 24 Grain type – Medium Habit – Erect Rice color – White Special features - Suitable for making flaked rice (Aval) and puffed rice (pori) Top ASD 19 Parentage – Lalnakanda / IR 30 Duration (Days) – 127 (120 - 132) Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5800 1000 grain weight (g) – 18.39 Grain type – Short, slender Habit – Semi-dwarf, erect Rice color – White Special features - Resistant to blast and Brown Plant Hopper Top TPS 2 Parentage – IR 26 / CO 40 Duration (Days) – 125 - 130 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 4615 1000 grain weight (g) – 23.5 Grain type – Short Bold Habit – Semi dwarf Rice color – White Special features - Moderately resistant to Brown Plant Hopper and leaf folder, Resistant to rice white tip nematode,Moderately resistant to blast and bacterial leaf blight Top TPS 3 Parentage – RP 31-492/LMN Duration (Days) – 135 -140 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5600 1000 grain weight (g) – 23.2 Grain type – Short Bold Habit – Semi dwarf/erect Rice color – White Special features - Resistant to blast and Leaf folder Top White ponni Parentage – Taichung 65/2/Mayang Ebos-80 Duration (Days) – 135 - 140 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 4500 1000 grain weight (g) – 16.4 Grain type – Medium slender Habit – Medium tall Rice color – White Special features – Fine grain quality Rice, Resistant to Rice Tungro Virus, Moderately resistant to Brown Spot and Blast Top Ruling Varieties - Long Duration ADT 44 Parentage – IR56 / OR142-99 Duration (Days) – 148 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6214 1000 grain weight (g) – 23.9 Grain type – Short Bold Habit – Medium Tall Rice color – White Special features – Resistant to blast, Green leaf hopper, Stem borer, Brown spot and Leaf Folder Top Ponmani(CR 1009) Parentage – Pankaj x Jagannath Duration (Days) – 155 - 160 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 5300 1000 grain weight (g) – 23.5 Grain type – Short bold Habit – Erect Rice color – White Special features - Resistant to Brown plant hopper and high yield potential. Top BPT 5204 Parentage – GEB-24 x T(N)1 x Mahsuri Duration (Days) – 150 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6000 Grain type – Medium slender Habit – Semi dwarf Rice color – White Special features – Resistant to Blast, suitable for Rainfed Shallow Low Land. Top PY 4(Jawahar) Parentage – IR 8 X H4 Duration (Days) – 145 - 150 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6200 1000 grain weight (g) – 24.8 Grain type – Long bold Habit – Semi dwarf, erect Rice color – White Suitable season - Samba Season Special features –Tolerant to Bacterial leaf blight, Brown spot, Rice Tungro virus, Sheath rot, leaf folder and stem borer Top Ruling Varieties - Hybrids CORH 1 Parentage – IR-62829 A x IR 10198-66-2 R Duration (Days) – 110-115 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6000 Grain type – Medium slender Habit – Semi dwarf Rice color – White Special features – moderately resistant to Sheahth Blight, Brown Spot, Green leaf hopper, Rice Tungro virus and Brown plant hopper Top CORH 2 Parentage – IR 58025 A/C 20R Duration (Days) – 125 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6100 1000 grain weight (g) – 23.77 Grain type – Medium Habit – Semi dwarf Rice color – White Special features - High yield potential Top CORH 3 Parentage : TNAU CMS 2A / CB 87 R Duration (days) : 110 – 115 Season : Kar / Kuruvai / Sornawari / Navarai Yield (Kg/ha) : 6600 Grain type - Medium slender Rice color - White Special features - High yield potential, Tolerant to blast and Rice tungro virus, Resistant to Green leaf hopper and tolerant to White backed plant hopper and Brown Plant Hopper Top ADTRH 1 Parentage – IR 58025 A/ IR 66 R Duration (Days) – 115 Average yield (Kg/ha) – 6400 1000 grain weight (g) – 23.8 Grain type – Long slender Habit – Semi dwarf, erect Rice color – White milky, scented Special features – High yield potential Top New varieties of Paddy CORH 3 Year of release - 2006 Parentage - TNAU CMS 2A / CB 87 R Duration (days) - 110 – 115 Season - Kar / Kuruvai / Sornawari / Navarai Yield (Kg/ha) - 6600 Grain type - Medium slender Rice color - White Special features - High yield potential, Tolerant to blast and Rice tungro virus, Resistant to Green leaf hopper and tolerant to White backed plant hopper and Brown Plant Hopper Top RMD(R) 1 Year of release - 2006 Parentage - Selection from TGR 75R Duration (days) - 100-105 Season : September – October (Rainfed direct sowing) Yield (Kg/ha) - 4000 Grain type - Semi dwarf Rice color - Long bold white rice Special features - Drought tolerant. Resistant to stem borer and leaf folder, Tolerant to bacterial leaf blight, blast and sheath rot Top TPS(R) 4 Year of release - 2006 Parentage - TS 29 / ASD 16 Duration (days) - 95 Season : Kannipoo (Jun-Sept.) - Kumbapoo (Oct.-Feb.) Yield (Kg/ha) - 6000 Grain type - Medium bold Rice color - White Special features - Field tolerance to disease blast, brown spot and sheath blight and stem borer, leaf folder, Brown plant hopper and Green leaf hopper. Top CO(R) 48 Year of release - 2007 Parentage - CO 43 / ASD 19 Duration (days) - 130 – 135 Season - Thaladi Yield (Kg/ha) - 9625 Grain type - Medium Slender Rice color - White rice Special features - Moderately resistant to stem borer and hoppers, blast, Rice tungro virus and sheath blight Top CO(R) 49 Year of release - 2008 Parentage - C 20 / RNR 52147 Duration (days) - 130-135 Season - Late Samba / Thaladi Yield (Kg/ha) - 6286 Grain type - Medium slender Rice color - White fine rice Special features - Moderately resistant to blast and Rice Tungro Disease. Moderately resistant to yellow stem borer and Green Leaf Hopper Top PMK(R) 4 or Anna(R) 4 Year of release - 2009 Parentage - Pantdhan 10 / IET 9911 Duration (days) - 100 - 105 Season - Samba (September – October) Yield - 3.7 tonnes / ha Grain type - Semi dwarf, erect and non–lodging Rice color - Long slender white rice Special features - Drought tolerant Top CO(R) 50 Year of release - 2010 Parentage - CO 43 / ADT 38 Duration (days) - 130 -135 Season - Late Samba / Thaladi Yield (Kg/ha) - 6338 Grain type - Medium slender Rice color - White fine rice Special features - Moderately resistant to blast, sheath blight, brown spot, bacterial leaf blight and rice tungro disease Top TRY 3 Year of release - 2010 Parentage - ADT 43 / Jeeraga Samba Duration (days) - 135 Season - Samba / Late Samba / Thaladi Yield (Kg/ha) - 5833 / ha Grain type - Medium bold grain Rice color - white rice Special features - Resistant to leaf folder, stem borer, brown plant hopper, blast, brown spot, sheath rot and sheath blight Top ADT 49 Year of release - 2011 Parentage - CR 1009/Jeeragasamba Duration - 130 to 137 days Season - Late samba / Thaladi Grain type - Medium slender Rice color - white rice Yield - 6173 kg/ha (10.5% over BPT 5204) Highest yield obtained - 10,250 kg/ha Recommended districts - All districts of Tamil Nadu except Virudhunagar, Ramnad, Sivaganga and The Nilgiris Special features - 1000 grain weight - 14.0 g Head rice yield - 71.3% Non-sticky cooked rice Moderately resistant to blast, sheath rot, sheath blight and resistant to RTD under artificial conditions Moderately resistant to leaf folder and brown spot under field conditions Top CORH 4 Year of release - 2011 Parentage - COMS 23 A / CB 174 R Duration - 130 – 135 days Season - Late samba / Thaladi Grain type - Medium slender Rice color - White rice Yield - 7348 kg/ha (14% over 27 P11) Highest yield obtained - 11250 kg/ha Recommended districts - Suitable for cultivation as transplanted Hybrid rice throughout Tamil Nadu except Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Sivagangai and Nilgris districts Special features - Medium duration hybrid Intermediate amylose content with high linear elongation ratio on cooking. Resistant to blast, brown spot and moderately resistant to WBPH, GLH, sheath blight, sheath rot and RTD. Top Traditional varieties of Paddy Puzhuthi Kar Nel – Dry Land Rice Grown in Western Ghats bounded in Erode district under rain fed and garden land conditions. Direct sown crop. Crop duration is 125-130 days and the average height of the crop is 130 cm. Susceptible for lodging. Rice are bold and red coloured. Top Kalurundai Grown in Nagapattinam district Late Samba (Sep 15 – Feb 14) and Navarai (Dec 15 - Mar14) are the best suited season. Requires clay loam soil for better growth. Direct sown crop with duration of 120 days. It grows upto a height of 120 cm. It is resistant to drought, pest and disease as well as salinity. Colour of the grain is yellow with black colour faded stripes. Rice is bold sized with pale yellow colour. Straw obtained from this rice variety is used for thatching roof. Top Soolai kuruvai Grown in coastal villages in Sempodai, Periyakuthagai, Thopputhurai at Nagai District. Late samba (Sep 15-Feb 14) and Kuruvai (June 1-Aug 31) are the suitable season. Clay loam and coastal saline soils are well suitable. Grown in both irrigated or rain fed conditions. Crop duration is 130-140 days and grows upto a height of 110-120 cm. The feature of this variety is motta or bold and pale dirty brown color. Straw used for cattle feed and also used for thatching roof Top Kuzhi Vedichan Grown in Vellapalam and Keevalur taluk of Nagapattinam district Samba (July 15 – Jan 14) is the apt season for cultivating Kuzhi vedichan. It grows well in sandy clay soil and saline soil, so that it is very well suited for coastal areas It is resistant to salinity, drought and pest and diseases It is a short duration crop and the cropping cycle is 110 days Size of the grain is bold in nature with pale dirty white colour. The specific character of this variety is induced milk secretion in lactating women Even when the field is flooded and the crop lodges, it has an unique feature of tillering again. Top Val Sivappu Grown in Vellapalam and Keevalur taluk of Nagapattinam district. Late samba (Sep 15-Feb 14) Sandy clay and saline soils are most favourable soil Saline as well as drought tolerant. Crop duration is 145-150 days and grows upto 160cm in height Red in colour and also good taste Posterior end of each grain has a single bristle like structure which looks like a small bird’s tail Top Vellai Kuruvi Kar Grown in Vellapalam and Keevalur taluk of Nagapattinam district. Samba (July15-Jan 14) and late samba (Sep 15-Feb 14) are the best suited seasons. Crop duration is 125-135 days out of which 25-30 days are nursery period. In upland conditions, direct sowing can be followed. This variety grows upto 100-120 cm. Both the grains as well as straw are pale yellow to dirty white colour. During tillering stage, rat damage will be more because the stem is tastier. Top Seeraga Samba Grown in Vellapalam and Keevalur taluk at Nagapattinam district 125-130 days, Samba variety and suited method is transplanting The nursery period is 30-35 days. The plant grows upto a height of 80.5 cm. The grain size is also very small and fine. It is highly used for making briyani on the special occasion. Top Pichavari Grown in Vellapalam and Keevalur taluk of Nagapattinam district. Tolerant to flood and drought and Thaladi crop. Direct sowing and transplanting system are used. Crop duration is 110-115 days Top Suran Kuruvai Grown in Vellapalam and Keevalur taluk of Nagapattinam district. Samba and late samba period. Crop duration is 130-135 days and the nursery period is 30-35 days. Rice is dark brown and coarse in texture. Top Vai Kunda Grown in Keevalur taluk of Nagapattinam district. Direct sowing and transplanting system. 145-150 days and nursery period is 35-40 days is inclusive. Tolerant to flood and drought. Top Kichedi samba Grown in Keevalur taluk of Nagapattinam district. Samba variety with 140 days. Rice colour is pale white. Special feature of this variety is resistant to pest and diseases. Top Chinna samba / Sada samba Grown in Keevalur taluk of Nagapattinam district. Samba variety with 140 days in which 30 days are nursery period. Grain is light green in colour during panicle initiation and milky stage, whereas in maturity stage it becomes pale yellow colour. Top Kuthiraival Samba Grown in Kampalathupatti village in Trichy district. Samba season (July 15-Jan 14). Crop duration is 140-150 days. Resistant to lodging and also resistant to pest and disease. Grain colour is yellowish, whereas rice is pure white in colour. Top Mara nel Grown in Thenkanikottai taluk of Krishnagiri district. Crop duration is 120-125 days and Late samba and Navarai(Summer) variety. Transplanting method is used for cultivation. The rice is red in colour and coarse in texture. Grains of this variety have a tough seed coat. So the grains do not germinate even if there is heavy rainfall at the time of harvest. Resistant to storage pest because of the hard seed coat. Top Kallimadayaan Grown in Iyerpalayam village of Perambalur district. Six months variety. It has good tillering ability with a plant height ranging from 110-120cm. The panicle length is 30 cm. Yields bold grains and has the potential to give two tonnes per acre. The colour of the grain is white. It is resistant to stem borer, ear head bug and also blight disease. Nursery period is 35-60 days. Top Karuppukavuni Grown in Anumandhakudi village in Sivagangai district. 150-170 days and Suitable season for growing this variety is September – January. Suitable to direct sowing. Needs only organic manures such as green and green leaf manure. Profuse tillering. The colour of the grain is black and it is only used for sweet making along with coconut milk and it is not suitable for meals preparation. Tillers are moist in nature and it fetches good weight. It requires lesser quantity of water comparatively and suitable for black cotton soil and red soil in dry lands. Top Chandikaar Grown in Anumandhakudi village in Sivagangai district. Season is September – January. The people often cut out the stem after three months of sowing to prevent lodging. It is suitable for black cotton soil, red soil and saline soil. It is suitable for direct sowing and transplanting. Resistant to paddy blight disease. Top Varappukkodanchan Grown in Chatrakudi village in Ramnad district. Suitable for rain fed condition, drought resistant and tall variety. The outer skin is black in colour and the rice is red in colour. Farmers believe it gives more energy compared to other fine rice varieties for working people and the straw yield is very higher. Three months variety and it is sown normally in the middle of Puratasi(September) and harvested in the month of Tai(January). Top Kuliparichan Grown in Pallabachery village in Ramnad district. Variety is suitable for coastal sandy soil and drought resistant and tall variety. The outer skin is slightly dark. The inner grain is bold and round and the cooked rice has good shelf-life. Three months variety and it is sown normally in the middle of Puratasi(September) and harvested in the month of Tai(January). Top Chitrakar Grown in Thirupullani tracts of Ramnad district. Peasants generally name all these local cultivars in the name of mattai or norungan. Suitable for coastal sandy soils and drought resistant and tall variety. The duration of the variety is 110 days. It is sown normally in the middle of September and harvested in the month of January. Top Sivappu Chitraikar Grown in Paramakudi tracts. Skin is slightly black in colour and the inner skin is red in colour. Drought resistant and tall variety and 110 days crop. Sown in the month of “Aavani” and harvested in the month of “Thai”. Farmers mainly rely on these traditional varieties rather than other varieties. “Rice kanji” of sivappu chitraikar is very tastier than other red rice varieties. Top Murungaikar Grown in Ramnad areas and it is suitable for even very low rainfall periods. Yield of murungaikar is 1000-1300 kg per acre in normal rain fed conditions The crop is sown normally in the month of Aavani (August) and harvested in Markazhi (January). Goat manure and Urea alone are applied generally to the Murungaikar field. Top Nootripathu Grown in Ramnad district. The outer skin is white in colour and the inner coat is red in colour. It is the drought resistant and tall variety. The rice kanji of this variety is good in taste and sown in “Aavani” and harvested in “Thai”. Some of the fields nearer to vaigai river basin, clay soil is found. The rainfed red rice varieties grow very well in clay soils rather than black and red soils. Top Ariyaan There are 4 types of Ariyaan rice varieties grown in sandy soils of Regunathapuram areas at Ramnad district. Viz, “Vellai Ariyaan”, Karuppu Ariyaan, Sivappu Ariyaan, and Vazhai Ariyaan. All Ariyaan varieties have awns. It grows very tall upto 5.5 to 6.5 feet. The duration of all the Ariyaan varieties is 120 days. They are sown in the month of Ayppasi (October-November) and harvested in the month of Thai(January). This variety is suitable for coastal sandy soils and drought resistant tall variety. It needs at least one rainfall shower in first 3 months for higher yield. The harvesting is done in three stages viz. top portion cut at first, middle portion cut at thereafter and bottom portion is cut at last. It is affected by leaf folder and stem borer. Top Sadaikkar It is available only in Aakadavalasai village in Ramanathapuram district. It has medicinal properties. It is used to cure wound injuries in leg and hand by applying over the wounded portion. Most of the local “maattu vaidyars” (Ethno Veterinary practicers) are using this rice for its medicinal value. The sowing season is September and harvested in February-March. The crop needs at least three showers in a month and it is not affected by pest and disease generally except leaf folder. It is grown in sandy soils, irrigation through well is not possible because the water will stagnate at surface level. Top Poongkar Grown in Raghunathapuram village at Ramnad district. If the season fails in “Puratasi” (September) another traditional early duration red rice variety of Poongkar is sown in the month of “Karthigai” (October) and it is harvested in Thai (January) but the yield is lowers. Suitable for coastal sandy soils, drought resistant and tall variety. The crop can be able to grow in very less rainfall condition and it is drought tolerant than kuliparichan and varppukodanchan Top Kuruvai kalanchium Grown generally in Ramnad district. The duration of the variety is 110 days and it is sown normally in the month of Aavani and harvested in the month of Thai. The seed rate is 40-50 kg per acre for direct sowing. The paddy straw yield from an acre is one tonnes. Rice kanji of Kuruvaikalanchiam is different than “sivappu chitraikar”. The cooked rice is very good in taste even after two days. Top Norungan Grown in Ramnad district with duration of 110 days. Sown in rain fed condition in sandy soils in the month of Ayppasi (October) as rainfed crop and it is harvested in the month of Thai (January). It is affected by leaf folder and stem borer, if there is no sufficient rain water Top Kalurundaikaar Grown in Paramakudi taluk of Ramnad district. Drought resistant and tall variety. In some fields 3 types of sorghum are grown as border crop. They are red, white and black. Top Thanga Samba Grown in Kanchipuram district. Late samba and samba period is the best season. Crop duration is 160-165 days where 40 days in nursery. The grain is golden colour and fine in texture. The ear head of this variety is very long. This variety of rice is extremely fine and long,it is used for the preparation of special dishes like pula. Top Neelan samba Grown in Sukkan kollai village in Kanchipuram district. Samba season is best suitable season and duration is 175-180 days. The rice is red in colour and coarse in texture. Highly suitable for water logging condition. Resistant to brown plant hopper and ear head bug. Suitable for lactating women. Top Vadan Samba Grown in Kanchipuram district. Samba season is best suitable and duration is 155-160 days. Direct sown and transplanting is used for growing this variety. The rice is dull white in colour and coarse in texture. Drought resistant. Resistant to pest and disease. Since the grains shatter, it is important to harvest them when they are still green. Top Kaliyan samba Grown in Sukkan kollai village at Kanchipuram district. Samba season is best suitable season and duration is 155-160 days out of which, 40-45 days will be nursery period. Transplanting is used for growing this variety. Rice is red in colour. It grows very tall upto the height of 5.5 feet. It can be grown in water logging and low lying area. Highly resistant to pest and disease. Top Samba Mozsanam Grown in Sukkan kollai village at Kanchipuram district. Samba season is best suitable season and the duration is 160-165 days (40-45 days nursery period). Dry sown and transplanting methods is used for growing this variety. The rice is red in colour and coarse in texture. This variety is also called Puzudikal, Erinel and Maduvu muzangi. It is suitable for growing in the vicinity of lakes. It is said that people travelled by boats and harvested the ‘Samba Mosanam’ in the lakes. The variety is good for preparing Aval (Flattened rice), idly and dosa. Top Kadikazhuthan Grown in Sukkan kollai village at Kanchipuram district. Samba season is best suitable season and the duration is 165 days. Transplanting system is used for growing this variety. The rice is white in colour and having the fine quality. It is also known as ‘Garudan samba’. The appearance of the grains is like the neck of the Brahmin kite(Garudan) i.e. it has a white ring and so called this name. It is suitable for making a specialty dish called ‘Puttu’ of South India. It grows well in areas which have good drainage facilities. Top Pisini Grown in Sukkan kollai village of Chengalpet taluk at Kanchipuram district. Samba season is best season and the duration of 120 days. The rice has red in colour and having the coarse quality. Highly suitable for making dosa, porridge and aval. Highly resistant to drought. Since the ear heads are found with awn it is important to take extra care while removing the grains. Top Thuyamalli Grown in Sukkan kollai village at Kanchipuram district. Samba season is best suitable season and the duration is 135-140 days. Direct sown and transplanting system is used for growing this variety. The rice is white in colour and having the fine quality. During the flowering stage the ear heads look like flowers. Highly resistant to pest and disease. Top Kalar palai Grown in Sukkan kollai village of Chengalpet taluk at Kanchipuram district. Navarai season is the best season and the duration is 120 days. Transplanting system is used for growing this variety. The rice is brown in colour and having the coarse quality. Resistant to pest and disease. Suitable for kalar nilam i.e. saline soil. Top Kudaivazhai Grown in Sukkan kollai village of Chengalpet taluk at Kanchipuram district. Late Samba season is best season and duration is 120-125 days. Transplanting is used for growing this variety. The rice has red in colour and having the coarse quality. The ear heads of this variety appear like open umbrellas and hence the name ‘kudaivazhai’. This variety is highly suitable for making dishes such as idly and Dosa. This variety is highly suitable for areas like water logging. This is a short duration variety; hence it can even be cultivated thrice a year. Top Kumvalai Grown in Sukkan kollai village of Chengalpet taluk at Kanchipuram district. Samba season is best season and duration is 128-130 days. Direct sown and transplanting is used for growing this variety. The rice is brown in colour and having the coarse quality. Straw is particularly preferred as a roofing material. It is suitable for sandy soil and also water logging area. Top Muttakar Grown in Edaiyur village of Thirukazhukundram taluk at Kanchipuram district. Navarai season is best season and duration of 120 days in which 30 days will be the nursery period. Wet sown and transplanting is used for growing this variety. The plant grows upto a height of 4.5 feet and it is a lodging type. The rice has red in colour and having the coarse quality. Top Sempalai Grown in Edaiyur village of Thirukazhukundram taluk at Kanchipuram district. Samba season is best season and duration of 100-105 days out of which 21-25 days are nursery period. Direct sown and transplanting system is used for growing this variety. The rice is dull white in colour and coarse quality. It is highly suitable for making ‘Pori’ (puffed rice). Top Kappakar Grown in Thakandarapuram village of Vandavasi taluk at Thiruvannamalai district. Samba season is best season and duration is 150-160 days in which 40 days will be the nursery period. The seed rate is 50 kg per acre. Dry sown and transplanting system is used for growing this variety. The rice is brown in colour. This variety is highly suitable for making idly and dosa. It gives high yield in clayey soil. It is suitable for growing in water logging areas as well as drought prone areas. Top Perunkar Grown in Thakandarapuram village of Vandavasi taluk at Thiruvannamalai district. Duration of the crop is 120 days and the seed rate for direct sown crop is 35 kg per acre and 40 kg per acre is used for transplanting system. The plant grows to a height of 4.5 feet. Tolerant to stem borer and ear head bug. Suitable for preparing idly and dosa. Top Kalanamak Kalanamak is one of the finest quality scented rices of India. It was quite popular in Himalayan Tarai of eastern Uttar Pradesh, India. Tall stature causing lodging, long duration, and low yield and grain quality. Ten germplasm lines were resistant to panicle blast. Similarly several germplasm lines performed well in Usar (saline-sodic) soil of pH 9.0 to 9.5. These selections offer great promise for cultivation in Usar soil. Cooked rice is fluffy, soft, non-sticky, sweet, and easily digestible with relatively longer shelf-life. In local market it earns higher price than Basmati rice, which is approximately 4 to 5 times higher than non-scented rice varieties. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Objective : The proposed project aims development of expert system for crop and animal enterprises facilitating instant decision making process of the farmers through ICT enabled mechanism. The expert system will also be synchronized with the existing KVK e-linking system for its implementation. The specific objective of the project is to develop expert system for crop and animal enterprises for instsnt decision making. Lead Centre : Directorate of Research on Women in Agriculture, Bhuvaneshwar. Other Network Centres : Zonal Coordinating Unit, Zone VIII, Bangalore, Karnataka. Directorate of Extension Education, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. Directorate of Extension Education, TANUVASU, Chennai, Tamil Nadu. Resources Centres : Kannada - Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Malayalam - C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram. Tamil - Anna University, Chennai. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Sponsored by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi (2009-2012) Project Officer Dr.T.Manoharan, Professor (Agricultural Entomology) Research Team E.Vadivel (Formr Project Officer, Precision Farming & e-Extension) R.Venkatachalam, ICT Co-ordinator N.Sriram, Assistant Professor (Agrl. Extn) N.Anandaraja, Assistant Professor (Agrl. Extn) I.Muthuvel, Assistant Professor (Horticulture) Research Fellows Content Development Team: Mrs. S. Mohana, JRF Mrs. N. Manoranjitham, SRF Mrs. P. Suhirdha, SRF Mrs. S.Gowsalya, SRF Software Development Team: Mr.R.S. Swamiappan, Programme Assistant (Computer) Mr. K. S.Gobinath, SRF Mr. M. Madankumar, SRF Mr. S.Karthick, SRF Ms. K. Meenambigai, SRF Ms. A. Sameembanu, SRF Mrs. S. Saranya, SRF Mrs. R. Gandhimathi, SRF Mrs. A. Seethalakshmi, SRF Mrs. P.Deepa, JRF Mrs. R. Jothi, JRF Ms. K. Kiruthika, SRF Ms. M. Saranya, JRF For further details Contact: e-Extension Centre Technology Park 5 Directorate of Extension Education Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore - 641 003 Ph: 0422-6611383, Fax: 0422-6611521 portal@tnau.ac.in / info@tnau.ac.in Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Bakanae Disease or Foot Rot (Gibberella Fujikuroi) Symptoms Infected plants several inches taller than normal plants in seedbed and field Thin plants with yellowish green leaves and pale green flag leaves Drying seedlings at early tillering Reduced tillering and drying leaves at late infection Partially filled grains, sterile, or empty grains for surviving plant at maturity In the seedbed, infected seedlings with lesions on roots die which may die before or after transplanting Bakane Bakanae Disease (Gibberella Fujikuroi) Top Identification of pathogen The pathogen sexually produces ascospores that are formed within a sac known as ascus. The asci are cylindrical, piston-shaped, flattened above, and are 90-102 x 7-9 µm. They are 4- to 6-spored but seldom 8-spored. Hyphae are branched and septate. The fungus has micro- and macroconidiophores bearing micro- and macroconidia, respectively. The sclerotia are 80 x 100 µm. They are dark blue and spherical. The stroma are more or less plectenchymatous and yellowish, brownish, or violet. Gibberella Fujikorai Conidium Micro and Macro Conidia of Bakane Disease Top Management Strategies Clean seeds should be used to minimize the occurrence of the disease. Salt water can be used to separate lightweight, infected seeds from seed lots and thereby reduce seedborne inoculum. Seed treatment using fungicides such as thiram, thiophanate-methyl, or benomyl is effective before planting. Benomyl or benomyl-t at 1-2% of seed weight should be used for dry seed coating. Seed treatment with organo mercurials - Agrosan GN, Ceresan @ 2 g a.i./kg seed is highly effective; steeping seeds in 1% CuSO4 solution or 2% formalin also recommended. Benomyl Separation of Chaffy Seeds using Salt Water Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Blast (Pyricularia oryzae) Symptoms All aboveground parts of the rice plant (leaves, leaf collar, culm, culm nodes, neck, and panicle) are attacked by the fungus initial symptoms are white to gray-green lesions or spots with brown borders Small specks originate on leaves - subsequently enlarge into spindle shaped spots(0.5 to 1.5cm length, 0.3 to 0.5cm width) with ashy center. older lesions elliptical or spindle-shaped and whitish to gray with necrotic borders Several spots coalesce to form big irregular patches. nodal infection causes the culm to break at the infected node Internodal infection also occurs at the base of the plant which causes white panicles similar to that induced by yellow stem borer or water deficit Lesions on the neck are grayish brown and causes the girdling of the neck and the panicle to fall over If infection of the neck occurs before milk stage, no grain is formed, but if infection occurs later, grains of poor quality are formed Lesions on the branches of the panicles and on the spikelet pedicels are brown to dark brown The size and shape of the spots vary on different rice varieties. Lesions on leaves with grey centre and brown margin Spindle shaped lesions on leaves Leaf Blast Severe cases of infection - entire crop give a blasted or burnt appearance- hence the name "BLAST" Severe cases - lodging of crop (after ear emergence) Neck Blast Neck region of panicle develops a black color and shrivels completely / partially grain set inhibited, panicle breaks at the neck and hangs Nodal Blast Nodes become black and break up Neck Blast Nodal Blast Top Identification of pathogen This disease is caused by a fungus named Pyricularia orizae, which overwinters in rice seeds and infected rice stubble. The fungus reproductive structures, spores, can spread from these two sources to rice plants during the next growing season and initiate new infections. Spores from these new infections can spread by wind to other rice plants over great distances. The conidiophores of the pathogen are produced in clusters from each stoma. They are rarely solitary with 2-4 septa. The basal area of the conidiophores is swollen and tapers toward the lighter apex. The conidia of the fungus measure 20-22 x 10-12 µm. The conidia are 2-septate, translucent, and slightly darkened. They are obclavate and tapering at the apex. They are truncate or extended into a short tooth at the base. The perfect stage is rarely found in the field. Colony of Pyricularia Oryzae Conidia Conidia are pyriform (pear-like) in shape. pyricularia oryzae microscopic Favourable conditions presence of the blast spores in the air throughout the year upland rice environment and high elevation in the tropics cloudy skies, frequent rain, and drizzles high nitrogen levels like ammonium sulfate high relative humidity (90% and higher) and wet leaves temperature from 25-28°C Occurrence Earliest known plant disease Also known as rotten neck or rice fever. Reported from 80 rice-growing countries. First recorded in India during 1918. Expected grain loss : 70 to 80% Top Management Strategies Cultural methods Planting resistant varieties against the rice blast is the most practical and economical way of controlling rice blast. Use of Tolerant varieties (CO 47, CO 50, ADT 36,ADT 37,ASD 16,ASD 20,ADT 39,ASD 19,TPS 3,White ponni,ADT 44,BPT 5204,CORH , Palghuna, Swarnamukhi, Swathi, Prabhat, IR - 64, , IR - 36, Jaya) Avoid excess N - fertilizer application Apply nitrogen in three split doses. Remove weed hosts from bunds. Avoid Excees Use of Nitrogen Fertilizer Use Resistant variety BPT 5204 Preventive methods Avoid dry nurseries. Avoid late planting. Burning of straw and stubbles after harvest Avoid grasses and other weeds on bunds and inside. Dry seed treatment with Pseudomonas fluorescens talc formulation @10g/kg of seed. Stagnate water to a depth of 2.5cm over an area of 25m2 in the nursery. Sprinkle 2.5 kg of P. fluorescens (talc) and mix with stagnated water. Soak the root system of seedlings for 30 min and transplant. Spray P. fluorescens talc formulation @ 0.5% from 45 days after transplanting at 10 day intervals, three times. Avoid Dry Nursery Root Dipping of Seedlings in Pseudomonas Chemical methods Do not apply lower/higher doses of fungicides. Spray before 11.00 AM/after 3.00 PM. Avoid noon hours for spraying. Seed treatment at 2.0 g/kg seed with Captan or Carbendazim or Thiram or Tricyclazole. Systemic fungicides such as pyroquilon and tricyclazole are possible chemicals for controlling the disease. Spraying of Tricyclazole at 1g/lit of water or Edifenphos at 1 ml/lit of water or Carbendazim at 1.0 gm/lit. 3 to 4 sprays each at nursery, tillering stage and panicle emergence stage may be required for complete control. Nursery stage: Light infection - Spray Carbendazim or Edifenphos @ 1.0 gm/lit. Pre-Tillering to Mid-Tillering: Light at 2 to 5 % disease severities - Apply Edifenphos or Carbendazim @ 1.0 gm/lit. Delay top dressing of N fertilizers when infection is seen. Panicle initiation to booting: At 2 to 5% leaf area damage- spray Edifenphos or Carbendazim or Tricyclazole @ 1.0 gm/lit. Flowering and after: At 5 % leaf area damage or 1 to 2 % neck infection spray Edifenphos or Carbendazim or Tricyclazole @ 1 g /lit of water. Spray Carbendazim Spray Edifenphos Thiram-Seed Treating Fungicide Treat the Seeds with Captan Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Bacterial leaf blight (Xanthomonas oryzae pv. Oryzae) Symptoms Seedling wilt or kresek Observed 1-3 weeks after transplanting Green water-soaked layer along the cut portion or leaf tip of leaves as early symptom Leaves wilt and roll up and become grayish green to yellow Entire plant wilt completely Leaf blight Water-soaked to yellowish stripes on leaf blades or starting at leaf tips with a wavy margin Leaves with undulated yellowish white or golden yellow marginal necrosis, drying of leaves back from tip and curling, leaving mid rib intact are the major symptoms. Appearance of bacterial ooze that looks like a milky or opaque dewdrop on young lesions early in the morning Severely infected leaves tend to dry quickly loss in grain yield may be up to 60%. Confirmation To distinguish kresek symptoms from stem borer damage, the lower end of the infected seedling can be squeezed between the fingers. Yellowish bacterial ooze may be seen coming out of the cut ends. The cut portion can be observed against the light to see the bacterial ooze streaming out from the cut ends into the water. After 1-2 hours, the water becomes turbid. Seedling wilt-Kresek Leaves with wavy yellow marginal necrosis Drying and curling of leaves leaving midrib intact Affected leaves with wavy yellow marginal necrosis Top Identification of pathogen The bacteria causing the disease are rods, 1.2 x 0.3-0.5 µm. They are single, occasionally in pairs but not in chains. They are Gram negative, non-spore-forming, and devoid of capsules. Their colonies on nutrient agar are pale yellow, circular, and smooth with an entire margin. They are convex and viscid. Factors favouring disease development presence of weeds presence of rice stubbles and ratoons of infected plants presence of bacteria in the rice paddy and irrigation canals warm temperature(25-30° C), , high humidity, rain and deep water. Severe winds, which cause wounds, and over fertilization are suitable factors for the development of the disease. Irrigation water and splashing or windblown rain can disseminate the bacterium from plant to plant. The use of trimming tools for transplanting and by handling during transplanting can also trigger new infection. Bacterial Ooze Microscopic View of Xanthomonas Oryzae Xanthomonas Oryzae Top Management Strategies Preventive method Seed treatment with bleaching powder (100g/l) and zinc sulfate (2%) reduce bacterial blight. Seed treatment - seed soaking for 8 hours in Agrimycin (0.025%) and wettable ceresan (0.05%) followed by hot water treatment for 30 min at 52-54oC; seed soaking for 8 hours in ceresan (0.1%) and treat with Streptocyclin (3g in 1 litre); Spray neem oil 3% or NSKE 5% Spray fresh cowdung extract for the control of bacterial blight. Dissolve 20 g cowdung in one litre of water; allow to settle and sieve. Use supernatant liquid. (starting from initial appearance of the disease and another at fortnightly interval) Soak the Seeds in Agrimycin for 8 hours Spray Fresh Cowdung Extract Spray Neem Oil Treat the Seeds with Bleaching Powder Cultural methods Grow Tolerant varieties (IR 20 IR 72,PONMANI , TKM 6). Secure disease free seed Grow nurseries preferably in isolated upland conditions Avoid clipping of seedlings during transplanting. Balanced fertilization, avoid excess N - application Skip N - application at booting (if disease is moderate) Drain the field (except at flowering stage of the crop) Destruction of weeds and collateral hosts Avoid flow of water from affected fields Maintain proper plant spacing Avoid Field to Field Irrigation Maintain Proper Spacing Chemical methods Seed treatment with bleaching powder (100g/l) and zinc sulfate (2%) reduce bacterial blight. Seed treatment - seed soaking for 8 hours in Agrimycin (0.025%) and wettable ceresan (0.05%) followed by hot water treatment for 30 min at 52-54oC; seed soaking for 8 hours in ceresan (0.1%) and treat with Streptocyclin (3g in 1 litre); Spray Streptomycin sulphate + Tetracycline combination 300 g + Copper oxychloride 1.25kg/ha. If necessary repeat 15 days later. Application of bleaching powder @ 5 kg/ha in the irrigation water is recommended in the kresek stage. Foliar spray with copper fungicides alternatively with Strepto-cyclin (250 ppm) to check secondary spread. Foliar Spraying of Copper Fungicides Seed Treatment with Zinc Sulphate Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Bacterial leaf streak (Xanthomonas oryzae pv. Oryzicola) Symptoms Initially, small, dark-green and water-soaked streaks on interveins from tillering to booting stage The progress of the streaks is longitudinal, limited by the veins and soon turn yellow or orange brown. All along the streaks bacterial exudates could be observed as tiny yellow or amber colored droplets. These streaks may coalesce to form large patches and cover the entire leaf surface. Lesions turn brown to greyish white then dry when disease is severe Infection in the florets and seeds results in brown or black discoloration and death of ovary, stamens and endosperm and browning of glumes. Brown to Greyish Longitudinal Streaks on Leaves Lesions turn brown to greyish and drying of leaves Top Identification of pathogen The bacteria causing the disease X. oryzae pv.oryzicola occur as rods. The bacteria have no spores and no capsules. They move with the aid of a single polar flagellum. They are Gram-negative and aerobic and can grow favorably at 28 °C. The bacterial colonies on nutrient agar are pale yellow, circular, smooth, convex, and viscid and have an entire margin. Factors favoring disease development Presence of the bacteria on leaves and in the water or those surviving in the debris left after harvest Warm temperature and high humidity Early stage of planting from maximum tillering to panicle initiation Cells of Xanthomonas Oryzae pv Exudate of Xanthomonas Campestris pv. Oryzicola Top Management Strategies The disease can be controlled by proper application of fertilizers and proper plant spacing, use of resistant varieties, and hot water treated seeds. Practicing field sanitation is important. Ratoons, straws and volunteer seedlings left after harvest can be destroyed to minimize the initial inoculum at the beginning of the season. Providing good drainage system especially in seedbeds can also manage this disease. Planting of resistant varieties (IR 20, TKM 6) is the most effective method of controlling bacterial leaf streak. Grow nurseries preferably in isolated upland conditions Avoid clipping of seedlings during transplanting. Spray fresh cowdung water extract or lemon grass or mint extract at 20 %. Spraying streptomycin sulphate and tetracycline combination 300g +copper oxychloride 1.25 kg/ha. Practice Field Sanitation Resistant Variety- IR 20 Spray Cowdung or Mint or Lemongrass Extract Spray Streptomycin Sulphate + Tetracycline Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Brown Spot (Helminthosporium oryzae) Symptoms Brown Spot is called as sesame leaf spot or Helminthosporiose or fungal blight The fungus attacks the crop from seedling in nursery to milk stage in main field. The disease appears first as minute brown dots, later becoming cylindrical or oval to circular.(resemble sesame seed) Spots measures 0.5 to 2.0mm in breadth - coalesce to form large patches. Then several spots coalesce and the leaf dries up. Infection also occurs on panicle, neck with brown colour appearance Seeds also infected (black or brown spots on glumes spots are covered by olivaceous velvety growth) The seedlings die and affected nurseries can be often recognized from a distance by their brownish scorched appearance. Dark brown or black spots also appear on glumes. The infection of the seed causes failure of seed germination, seedling mortality and reduces the grain quality and weight. 50% yield reduction in severe cases . Circular or Oval Spots on Leaves Spots on leaves with brown margin Dark Brown or Black Spots on Panicle Glumes and Grains Brown Spot on Grains Mode of spread and survival The infected seeds are the most common source of primary infection. The fungus also survives on collateral hosts. The fungus can survive in the seed for more than 4 years. Infected seeds, volunteer rice, infected rice debris, and several weeds are the major sources of inoculums in the field. Infected seeds give rise to infected seedlings. The fungus can spread from plant to plant and in the field by airborne spores. The disease is common in nutrient-deficient soils and unflooded soil but rare on rice grown on fertile soils. Abnormal soils, which are deficient in nutrient elements, or soils in a much-reduced condition in which toxic substances accumulate favor the development of the disease. Top Identification of pathogen Brown Spot: Helminthosporium oryzae—FUNGAL DISEASE (Syn: Drechslera oryzae) (Sexual stage : Cochliobolus miyabeanus) The fungi causing the disease occur in two states or stages. These are the asexual stage, which is called anamorph or imperfect stage and the sexual stage, which is called teleomorph or the perfect stage. The somatic structures of the fungus consist of black velvety mycelial mats which are made up of prostrate hyphae and erect sporophores. The hyphae are abundant, branching, and anastomosing. They are dark brown or olivaceous and measure 8-15 µm or more in diameter. The sporophores arise as lateral branches from the hyphae. The conidia measure 35-170 x 11-17 µm. Typical conidia are slightly curved, widest at the middle and tapering toward the hemispherical apex, where their width approximates half the median width. Mature conidia are brownish with a moderately thin peripheral wall. Favourable conditions Temperature of 25-30°C Relative humidity above 80 per cent. Excess of nitrogen aggravates the disease incidence. Leaves must be wet for 8-24 hours for infection to occur. Conidia Fungal Pathogen Fungus Top Management Strategies Cultural methods As disease is seed borne,Use disease free seeds. Removal of alternate & collateral hosts. The use of resistant varieties is the most economical means of control. Growing Resistant varieties like ADT 44,PY 4,CORH 1,CO 44,CAUVERY,BHAVANI,TPS 4 and Dhanu. Providing proper nutrition for optimum plant growth and prevention of water stress seem to be the most important factors in controlling brown spot. The disease is rarely observed in normally fertile rice soils. Soils known to be low in plant-available silicon should be amended with calcium silicate slag before planting and the field should be well irrigated to avoid water stress. Apply Calcium Silicate Slag Use Disease Free Seeds Use Resistant Variety ADT 44 Use Resistant Variety TPS 4 Preventive methods Seed treatment with Pseudomonas fluorescens @ 10g/kg of seed followed by seedling dip @ of 2.5 kg or products/ha dissolved in 100 litres and dipping for 30 minutes. seed soak / seed treatment with Captan or Thiram at 2.0g /kg of seed Seed treatment with Agrosan or Ceresan 2.5 g/kg seed to ward off seedling blight stage; Since the fungus is seed transmitted, a hot water seed treatment (53-54°C) for 10-12 minutes may be effective before sowing. This treatment controls primary infection at the seedling stage. Presoaking the seed in cold water for 8 hours increases effectivity of the treatment. Fungicide for Seed Treatment- Agrosan pseudomonas Seed Treatment Chemical methods seed soak / seed treatment with Captan or Thiram at 2.0g /kg of seed Spray Mancozeb (2.0g/lit) or Edifenphos (1ml/lit) - 2 to 3 times at 10 - 15 day intervals. Spray preferably during early hours or afternoon at flowering and post - flowering stages. Seed treatment with Agrosan or Ceresan 2.5 g/kg seed to ward off seedling blight stage; Spraying copper fungicides to control secondary spread; Grisepfulvin, nystatin, aureofungin, and similar antibiotics have been found effective in preventing primary seedling infection. Seed treatment with captan, thiram, chitosan, carbendazim, or mancozeb has been found to reduce seedling infection. Seed treatment with tricyclazole followed by spraying of mancozeb + tricyclazole at tillering and late booting stages gave good control of the disease. Application of edifenphos, chitosan, iprodione, or carbendazim in the field is also advisable. Spray Mancozeb Spraying of Fungicide Treat the Seeds with Thiram Use Antibiotic- Aureofungin Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Diseases Blast Brown Spot Bacterial leaf blight Tungro Disease Sheath Rot Sheath Blight False smut Grain Discoloration Bacterial Leaf Streak Udbatta Disease Grassy Stunt Virus Ragged Stunt Virus Bakanae Disease or Foot Rot Leaf Scald Stem Rot Yellow Dwarf Diseases In rice, diseases are caused by fungi, bacteria and viruses. Losses due to the diseases in rice are very heavy and famines have been reported in the history due to the crop diseases. Our country faced a severe famine in 1943 in Bengal due to epidemic outbreak of brown leaf spot (Helminthosporium oryzae). Blast disease was a severe epidemic in 1919 in Thanjavur district. It also occurred in severe form in 1985-88 in Tamil Nadu. Bacterial blight was an epidemic in 1963 in Bihar. Rice Tungro disease outbreak was severe during 1985-87 in Tamil Nadu. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies False Smut (Ustilaginoidea virens) Symptoms Individual rice grain transformed into a mass of yellow fruiting bodies Growth of velvetty spores that enclose floral parts Infected grain has greenish smut balls with a velvetty appearance. The smut ball appears small at first and grows gradually up to the size of 1 cm. It is seen in between the hulls and encloses the floral parts. Only few grains in a panicle are usually infected and the rest are normal. As the fungi growth intensifies, the smut ball bursts and becomes orange then later yellowish-green or greenish-black in color. Infection usually occurs during the reproductive and ripening stages, infecting a few grains in the panicle and leaving the rest healthy. Discolouration of Grains Grains Transformed into a Mass of Yellow Fruiting Bodies Greenish Black Smut Balls with a Velvetty Appearance Smut Balls Bursts and becomes Black in Color Top Identification of pathogen Chlamydospore formed on the spore balls are born laterally on minute sterigmata on radial hyphae, and are spherical to elliptical, warty, olivaceous, 3-5 x 4-6 µm. Younger spores are smaller, paler, and almost smooth. Some of the green spore balls develop one to four sclerotia in the center. These sclerotia overwinter in the field and produce stalked stromata the following summer or autumn. In temperate regions, the fungus survives the winter by means of sclerotia as well as chlamydospores. It is believed that the primary infections are initiated mainly by the ascospores produced from the sclerotia. Chlamydospores play an important role in secondary infection, which is a major part of the disease cycle. Conditions that favour disease development presence of rain and high humidity presence of soils with high nitrogen content presence of wind for dissemination of the spores from plant to plant presence of overwintering fungus as sclerotia and chlamydospores flowering stage of the rice crop False Smut Spores Microscopic View of Spores Ustilaginoidea Virens Spores from Infected Rice Grain Top Management Strategies Preventive methods Use of disease-free seeds that are selected from healthy crop. Seed treatment with carbendazim 2.0g/kg of seeds. Control insect pests. Split application of nitrogen is recommended. Removal and proper disposal of infected plant debris. Use Dieases Free Seeds Seed Treatment with Carbendazim Cultural methods Among the cultural control, destruction of straw and stubble from infected plants is recommended to reduce the disease. Use varieties that are found to be resistant or tolerant against the disease in India. Avoid field activities when the plants are wet. Early planted crop has less smut balls than the late planted crop. At the time of harvesting, diseased plants should be removed and destroyed so that sclerotia do not fall in the field. This will reduce primary inoculum for the next crop. Field bunds and irrigation channels should be kept clean to eliminate alternate hosts. Excess application of nitrogenous fertilizer should be avoided. Regular monitoring of disease incidence during rabi season is very essential. Proper Destruction of straw and stubble. Destruction of Straw and Stubbles Keep Irrigation Channel Clean Keep the Bunds Clean Use LCC to Avoid Excess Application of Nitrogen Chemical methods Spraying of copper oxychloride at 2.5 g/litre or Propiconazole at 1.0 ml/litre at boot leaf and milky stages will be more useful to prevent the fungal infection. Seed treatment with carbendazim 2.0g/kg of seeds. At tillering and preflowering stages, spray Hexaconazole @ 1ml/lit or Chlorothalonil 2g/lit. In areas where the disease may cause yield loss, applying captan, captafol, fentin hydroxide, and mancozeb can be inhibited conidial germination. At tillering and preflowering stages, spraying of carbendazim fungicide and copper base fungicide can effectively control the disease. Spray Copper Oxychloride Spray Hexaconazole Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Grain Discoloration Symptoms The grains may be infected by various organisms before or after harvesting causing discolouration, the extend of which varies according to season and locality. The infection may be external or internal causing discoloration of the glumes or kernels or both. Dark brown or black spots appear on the grains. The discolouration may be red, yellow, orange, pink or black, depending upon the organism involved and the degree of infection. This disease is responsible for quantitative and qualitative losses of grains. Mode of Spread and Survival The disease spreads mainly through air-borne conidia and the fungus survives as parasite and saprophyte in the infected grains, plant debris and also on other crop debris. Discolouration of grains Bblack Spots Appear on Grains with Prominent Fungal Discolouration Black Spots Appear on Grains Fungal Growth on Grains Top Identification of pathogen Group of fungus - Drechslera oryzae, D. rostratum, D.tetramera, Curvularia lunata, Trichoconis padwickii, Sarocladium oryzae, Alternaria tenuis, Fusarium moniliforme, Cladosporium herbarum, Epicoccum purpurascens, Cephalosporium sp., Phoma sp., Nigrospora sp. Favourable Conditions: High humidity and cloudy weather during heading stage. Curvularia Lunata Spores Filamentous Fungus (Fusarium Monoliforme) Top Management Strategies Preventive methods Use of disease-free seeds that are selected from healthy crop. Seed treatment with carbendazim 2.0g/kg of seeds. Control insect pests. Removal and proper disposal of infected plant debris. Use Dieases Free Seeds Seed Treatment with Carbendazim Chemical methods In areas where the disease may cause yield loss, applying captan, captafol, fentin hydroxide, and mancozeb can be inhibited conidial germination. At tillering and preflowering stages, spraying of carbendazim fungicide and copper base fungicide can effectively control the disease. Pre and post-harvest measures should be taken into account for prevention of grain discolouration. Spray the crop at bootleaf stage with Mancozeb 1 kg or Iprobenphos 500 ml or Carbendazim 250 g/ha. Store the grains with 13.5-14% moisture content. Captan Spray Mancozeb at Boot Leaf Stage Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Leaf scald (Microdochium Oryzae) Symptoms Zonate lesions of alternating light tan and dark brown starting from leaf tips or edges Lesions oblong with light brown halos in mature leaves Coalescing of lesions result in blighting of a large part of the leaf blade The affected areas dry out giving the leaf a scalded appearance Translucent leaf tips and margins Infected leaf tips also split near the midrib especially when there are strong wind. Rice Leaf Scald Disease Leaf Scald Top Identification of pathogen The conidia are borne on superficial stromata (compact masses of specialized vegetative hyphae) arising from lesions. They are bow to new-moon shaped, single-celled when young and 2-celled when mature, occasionally 2-3 septate. Asci are cylindrical to club-shaped and unitunicate (an ascus wherein both the inner and outer walls are more or less rigid and do not separate during spore ejection). The ascospores are fusoid (tapering towards each end), straight or somewhat curved, 3-5 septate. Conidia of Rice Leaf Scald Pathogen Rice Leaf Scald Pathogen Top Management Strategies Avoid high use of fertilizer. Chemicals such as benomyl, carbendazim, quitozene, and thiophanate-methyl can be used to treat the seeds to eliminate the disease. In the field, spraying of benomyl, fentin acetate, edifenphos, and validamycin significantly reduce the incidence of leaf scald. Foliar application of captafol, mancozeb, and copper oxychloride also reduces the incidence and severity of the fungal disease. Mancozeb Validamycin Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection >> Diseases >> Grassy Stunt & Ragged Stunt Virus HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Ragged stunt virus Symptoms Infected plants severely stunted during early growth stages of the crop Leaves short and dark green with serrated edges Leaf blades twisted at the apex or base, which result in the spiral shape of the leaves Leaf edges uneven and the twisting give the leaves a ragged appearance Ragged portions of the leaves are yellow to yellow-brown Vein swellings develop on the leaf blades and sheaths Swellings pale yellow or white to dark brown Flag leaves twisted, malformed, and shortened at booting stage Flowering is delayed Incomplete panicle emergence Nodal branches produced at upper nodes Partially exserted panicles and unfilled grains Ragged Stunt Virus Rice Ragged Stunt Disease Top Identification of pathogen The brown planthopper transmits the disease. The early instar nymphs of the insect are more efficient in transmitting the disease than older ones. Five-day-old nymphs are the most efficient transmitters. The virus is acquired within a feeding period of 24 hours. Viral particles are 63-65 nm in diameter and consist of five proteins. They are mostly found in phloem and gall cells. The genome consists of ten double-stranded RNA segments. The virus is circulative and propagative in the insect vectors. Ragged Stunt Causal Virus Top Management Strategies Avoid close planting and provide 30 cm rogue spacing at every 2.5 to 3.0 m to reduce the pest incidence. There are varieties released by IRRI, which contain genes for BPH resistance, like IR26, IR64, IR36, IR56, and IR72. plouging and harrowing the field to destroy stubbles right after harvest in order to eradicate other hosts. Apply any one of the following to control vector BPH: Phosphamidon 40 SL 1000 ml/ha (or) Phosalone 35 EC 1500 ml/ha (or) Carbaryl 10 D 25 kg/ha (or) (or) Acephate 75 SP 625 gm/ha (or) Chlorpyriphos 20 EC 1250 ml/ha. Ploughing to Incorporate Stubbles Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Sheath Blight (Rhizoctonia solani) Symptoms The fungus affects the crop from tillering to heading stage. Initial symptoms are noticed on leaf sheaths near water level. On the leaf sheath oval or elliptical or irregular greenish grey spots are formed. As the spots enlarge, the centre becomes greyish white with an irregular blackish brown or purple brown border. Lesions on the upper parts of plants extend rapidly coalesing with each other to cover entire tillers from the water line to the flag leaf. The presence of several large lesions on a leaf sheath usually causes death of the whole leaf, and in severe cases all the leaves of a plant may be blighted in this way. The infection extends to the inner sheaths resulting in death of the entire plant. Older plants are highly susceptible. Five to six week old leaf sheaths are highly susceptible. Plants heavily infected in the early heading and grain filling growth stages produce poorly filled grain, especially in the lower part of the panicle. A yield loss of 25% was reported if the flag leaves are infected. Elliptical or Irregular Greenish Grey Spots on Sheaths Blightening of Sheath near Water Level Blightening of Sheath Discoloration of Sheath Top Identification of pathogen The disease is soilborne The fungus produces usually long cells of septate mycelium which are hyaline when young, yellowish brown when old. It produces large number of globoses sclerotia, which are initially white, later turn to brown or purplish brown. There are three types of mycelium produced: runner hyphae, lobate hyphae, and monilioid cells. Sclerotia consist of compact masses of mycelia. They are irregular, hemispherical, flattened at the bottom, white when young, and turn brown or dark brown when older. Individual sclerotia are 1-6 mm in diameter. They may unite to form a larger mass. Large sclerotia are significantly more virulent than smaller ones. Favourable conditions presence of sclerotia or infection bodies floating on the water presence of the disease in the soil relative humidity from 96 to 100% temperature from 28-32 °C high levels of nitrogen fertilizer High seeding rate or closing plant spacing Frequent rain Mode of Spread and Survival The pathogen can survive as sclerotia or mycelium in dry soil for about 20 months but for 5-8 months in moist soil. Sclerotia spread through irrigation water. Old Culture of Rhizoctonia Solani Rhizoctania Solani Sheath Blight Pathogen Young Culture of Rhizoctonia Solani Top Management Strategies Preventive method Seed treatment with Pseudomonas fluorescens @ of 10g/kg of seed followed by seedling dip @ of 2.5 kg or products/ha dissolved in 100 litres and dipping for 30 minutes. Soil application of P.fluorescens @ of 2.5 kg/ha after 30 days of transplanting (This product should be mixed with 50 kg of FYM/Sand and then applied. Foliar spray of Pseudomonas fluorescens at 0.2% concentration ,commencing from 45 days after transplanting at 10 days interval for 3 times depending upon the intensity of disease. Mixing of Pseudomonas with FYM Seed Treatment with pseudomonas Cultural methods Apply FYM 12.5 t/ha or green manure 6.25 t/ha to promote antagonistic microflora Avoid excess doses of fertilizers. Adopt optimum spacing. Eliminate weed hosts. Apply organic amendments. Avoid flow of irrigation water from infected fields to healthy fields. Deep ploughing in summer and burning of stubbles. Apply Organic Amendments Deep Summer Ploughing Chemical methods Control of sheath blight has been mainly through the use of foliar fungicides. Carbendazim (1 g/lit), Propiconazole (1ml/lit) may be applied. Spraying of infected plants with fungicides, such as Benomyl and Iprodione, and antibiotics, such as Validamycin and Polyoxin, is effective against the disease Spray Carbendazim 250 g or Chlorothalonil 1 kg or Edifenphos 1 lit/ha. Spray Iprodione Use Polyoxin Antibiotic Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Sheath Rot (Sarocladium oryzae) Symptoms Discoloration in the flag leaf sheath Rotting occurs on the leaf sheath that encloses the young panicles. irregular spots or lesions, with dark reddish brown margins and gray center discoloration in the sheath lesions enlarge and often coalesce and may cover the entire leaf sheath severe infection causes entire or parts of young panicles to remain within the sheath unemerged panicles rot and florets turn red-brown to dark brown whitish powdery growth inside the affected sheaths and young panicles infected panicles and grains are sterile, shriveled, partially or unfilled, and discolored. The disease is important during the heading towards the maturity stages of the rice crop. Confirmation Lesions develop on the uppermost leaf sheaths that enclose the panicles. Some panicles do not emerge or emerge partially. Rotting of the sheath and the development of whitish powdery fungal growth is usually observed. Irregular Spots on Sheaths Discoloration of Leaf Sheath Panicles remain within the Sheath Rottening of Flag Leaf Sheath Top Identification of pathogen The fungus produces white mycelium, sparsely branched, septate, and measures 1.5-2m in diameter. Conidiophores arising from the mycelium are slightly thicker than the vegetative hyphae, branched once or twice, each time with 3-4 branches in a whorl. The ultimate branches are phialides and produce conidia that are, cylindrical to slightly fusiform, often somewhat curved, hyaline, smooth, single-celled, 4-9 x 1-2.5 m. In some cases, the fungus infects the sheath in combination with bacterial pathogens attacking the sheath and causing grain discoloration (e.g., Pseudomonas fuscovaginae). The fungus invades rice through the plant's stomates and wounds and grows intercellularly in the vascular bundles and mesophyll tissues. The sheath rot fungus survives as a mycelium in infected residue and on seeds. Favourable conditions High amount of nitrogen, high relative humidity, and dense crop growth favors sheath rot development. The fungus grows best at 20 to 28°C. Sarocladium Oryzae Habit Sarocladium Oryzae Spores Spores Top Management Strategies Preventive method Bacterization with Pseudomonas fluorescens reduced sheath rot severity by 20-42%, enhanced crop growth, and increased grain yield. Seed treatment with Bacillus subtilis @ of 10g/kg of seed followed by seedling dip @ of 2.5 kg or products/ha dissolved in 100 litres and dipping for 30 minutes. Soil application of P.fluorescens @ of 2.5 kg/ha after 30 days of transplanting (This product should be mixed with 50 kg of FYM/Sand and then applied. Foliar spray at 0.2% concentration Bacillus subtilis commencing from 45 days after transplanting at 10 days interval for 3 times depending upon the intensity of disease. Root Dip of Seedlings with Bacillus subtilis Foliar Spray of Bacillus subtilis Cultural methods Removal of infected stubbles after harvest optimum plant spacing can reduce the disease. Application of potash at tillering stage is also recommended. Control weeds and keep field sanitation. Provide Optimum Plant Spacing Apply Potash at Tillering Stage Chemical methods For control of sheath rot, spray the fungicides at the time of panicle emergence. Ediphenphos may be applied by high volume sprayers only. Application of a systemic pesticide,Tridemorph (a fungicide) and phosphamidon (an insecticide) in combination protected the plants from sheath rot. Seed treatment with fungicides such as Mancozeb and Benomyl effectively eliminate seedborne inoculum. At booting stage, foliar spraying with carbendazim, edifenphos, or mancozeb was found to reduce sheath rot. Spray Carbendazim 250 g or Chlorothalonil 1 kg or Edifenphos 1 lit/ha. Foliar spraying with Benomyl and copper oxychloride were also found to be effective. Spray Benomyl Spray Chlorothalonil Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection >> Diseases >> Stem Rot HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Stem Rot (Sclerotium oryzae) Symptoms Initial symptoms are small, irregular black lesions on the outer leaf sheath near water level Lesions expand as the disease advances Infected stem rots Visible numerous tiny white and black sclerotia and mycelium inside the infected culms Infected culm lodges and caused unfilled panicles and chalky grain Severe infection causes tiller death The disease aggravates the plants to lodge Stem Rot Stem Rot Top Identification of pathogen The perithecia are dark, globose, and embedded in outer tissues of the sheath. The asci are narrowly clavate with almost invisible walls and deliquescing by the time the spores mature. The sclerotia are black and globose or near globose and smooth The conidiophores are dark, upright, and septate. Conidia are fusiform, three-septate, curved, and are produced on pointed sterigmata. Sclerotium Oryzae Sclerotium Oryzae Top Management Strategies Burning straw and stubble or any crop residue after harvest or letting the straw decompose and draining the field can reduce sclerotia in the field. A balanced use of fertilizer or split application with high potash and lime to increase soil pH reduces stem rot infection and increases yield. Chemicals such as fentin hydroxide sprayed at the mid-tillering stage, thiophanate-methyl sprayed at the time of disease initiation can reduce stem rot incidence in the rice field. The use of other fungicides such as Ferimzone and validamycin A also effective against the fungus. Fentin Hydroxide Lime Fertilizer Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection >> Diseases >> Grassy Stunt & Ragged Stunt Virus HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Grassy stunt virus Symptoms Diseased hills are severely stunted with excessive tillering and a very upright growth habit Diseased hills has a grassy and rosette appearance Leaves short, narrow, and yellowish green with numerous small rusty spots or patches, which form blotches Retention of green coloration of the leaves after application of sufficient nitrogenous fertilizers Infected plants usually survive until maturity, but produce no panicles The symptom develops 10-20 days after infection. Grassy stunt virus Rice grassy stunt virus disease Top Identification of pathogen The virus exists in the vector and in the rice crop. Brown planthopper nymphs and adults transmit it where rice is grown year-round. RGSV is generally endemic. The macropterous forms or the long winged adults of the insect are important in spreading the disease than the short winged forms. They feed on the diseased plant for at least 30 minutes to pick-up the virus. Higher infection is attained after prolonged inoculation feeding periods of up to 24 hours. The availability of the vector encourages the damage. Rice grassy stunt virus (RGSV) is a member of the Tenuiviruses. It has fine filamentous particles, which are 6-8 nm in diameter. It has a nodal contour length of 950-1,350 nm. The particles have one capsid protein and the genome is made up of four single-stranded RNA. Grassy Stunt Virus Rice Grassy Stunt Virus Top Management Strategies Avoid close planting and provide 30 cm rogue spacing at every 2.5 to 3.0 m to reduce the pest incidence. There are varieties released by IRRI, which contain genes for BPH resistance, like IR26, IR64, IR36, IR56, and IR72. plouging and harrowing the field to destroy stubbles right after harvest in order to eradicate other hosts. Apply any one of the following to control vector BPH Phosphamidon 40 SL 1000 ml/ha (or) Phosalone 35 EC 1500 ml/ha (or) Carbaryl 10 D 25 kg/ha (or) (or) Acephate 75 SP 625 gm/ha (or) Chlorpyriphos 20 EC 1250 ml/ha. Provide rogue spacing of 30 cm to check vector movement Spray Phosphomidan to control vector Brown Plant Hopper Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection >> Diseases >> Tungro HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Tungro Disease Symptoms Plants affected by tungro exhibit stunting and reduced tillering. Their leaves become yellow or orange-yellow, may also have rust-colored spots. Discoloration begins from leaf tip and extends down to the blade or the lower leaf portion Delayed flowering, - panicles small and not completely exerted Most panicles sterile or partially filled grains Tungro virus disease affects all growth stages of the rice plant specifically the vegetative stage. Special detection technique Collect leaf samples at 6 a.m. The top 10 cm portion of the leaf is immersed in a solution containing 2 g of iodine and 6 g of potassium iodide in 100 ml of water for 15 minutes or 10 ml of tincture of iodine + 140 ml of water for one hour.Washed in water and when examined. Tungro infected leaves develop dark blue streaks. Yellowing from Tip to Downwards Stunted with Reduced Tillering Completely Withered Plant Tungro affected field Top Identification of pathogen Tungro virus disease is transmitted by leafhoppers, wherein the most efficient vector is the green leafhopper, Nephotettix virescens (Distant). The disease complex is associated with rice tungro baciliform virus (RTBV) and rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV). RTBV cannot be transmitted by leafhoppers unless RTSV is present. Insects could acquire the virus from any part of the infected plant. After acquiring the virus, the vector can immediately transmit to the plants. RTBV particles are rod-shaped and 100-300 nm in length and 30-35 nm in width. It contains DNA of 8.3 kb. RTSV particles are isometric and 30 nm in diameter. It has a polyadenylated single-stranded RNA of about 12 kb. Factors favouring disease development Presence of the virus sources. Presence of the vector. Age and susceptibility of host plants. Synchronization of the three above factors. All growth stages of the rice plant specifically the vegetative stage Rice Tungro Baciliform Virus Particle Rice Tungro Spherical Virus Virus Top Management Strategies Trap methods Light traps are to be set up to attract and control the leaf hopper vectors as well as to monitor the population. In the early morning, the population of leafhopper alighting near the light trap should be killed by spraying/dusting the insecticides. This should be practiced every day. TNAU-Light Trap Spray Fenthion Near Traps Cultural methods Planting of resistant varieties against tungro virus disease is the most economical means of managing the disease. Use Resistant varieties like IR 36, IR 50 ,ADT 37, Ponmani, Co 45, Co 48, Surekha, Vikramarya, Bharani, IR 36 and white ponni . Among the cultural management practices, adjusting the date of planting is recommended. Likewise, observing a fallow period of at least a month to eliminate hosts and viruses and vectors of the disease. In epidemic areas follow rotation with pulses or oil seeds. Apply neem cake @ 12.5 kg/20 cent nursery as basal dose. plouging and harrowing the field to destroy stubbles right after harvest in order to eradicate other tungro hosts are also advisable. Destruction of weed hosts on bunds. Apply Neem Cake to nursery Ploughing to Incorporate Stubbles Use Resistant Variety ADT 37 Use Resistant Variety CO 48 Chemical methods Leaf yellowing can be minimized by spraying 2 % urea mixed with Mancozeb at 2.5 gm/lit. Instead of urea foliar fertilizer like multi-K (potassium nitrate) can be sprayed at 1 per cent which impart resistance also because of high potassium content. Green leaf hoppers as vectors are to be controlled effectively in time by spraying. Spray insecticides twice, 15 and 30 days after transplanting Spray Two rounds of any one of the following insecticides Fenthion 100 EC (40 ml/ha) may be sprayed 15 and 30 days after transplanting. The vegetation on the bunds should also be sprayed with the insecticides. Maintain 2.5 cm of water in the nursery and broadcast anyone of the following in 20 cents Carbofuran 3 G 3.5 kg (or) Phorate 10 G 1.0 kg (or) Quinalphos 5 G 2.0 kg In nursery when virus infection is low, apply Carbofuran granules @ 1 kg./ha to control vector population. During pre-tillering to mid-tillering when one affected hill/m is observed apply Carbofuran granules @ 3.5kg/ha to control insect vector. Apply Carbofuran Apply phorate Foliar Spray of Multi-K Spraying of Urea + Mancozeb Top Copyright © TNAU 2008 - 2022 | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Udbatta Disease Symptoms A white mycelial mat ties panicle branches together so that panicle emerge as single, straight, dirty coloured, cylindrical rods much resembling an agarbatti or udbattta, hence the name. White mycelium and conidia form narrow stripes on the flag leaves along the veins before the panicles emerge. No grains are formed on the affected ear. The diseased plants produce distorted earheads later. Infection of the seeds is initiated at the time of emergence of the panicle It is reported to occur in severe forms in many parts of South India, including Madurai district in Tamil Nadu, Wynaad in Kerala and Kollegal and South Kanara districts in Karnataka. Distorted Panicle with White Mycelium and Conidia Panicle Emerge as Straight Dirty Coloured Cylindrical Rods as Udbathi Top Identification of pathogen Perfect Stage: Balansia oryzae – sativae. Hashioka. (Subdivision: Ascomycotina; Order: Sphaeriales; Family: Hypocreaceae). The perfect stage of the fungus is an Ascoycete, Balansia oryzae-sativa. Disease Cycle: The fungus is seed-borne externally and systemic. The presence of lustrous grayish white films of fungal growth in young leaves of the infected seedlings suggest the entry of the pathogen during germination of the seeds. As no grains are obtained from aggected heads, diseased seeds are not important in perpetuation of the disease. The fungus has been recorded on the grasses Isachne elegans, Cynadon dactylon, Pennisetum sp., and Eragrostis tenuifolia and they serve as collateral hosts. The disease incidence is less severe on very early and late sown crops. Factors favoring disease development Presence of the bacteria on leaves and in the water or those surviving in the debris left after harvest Warm temperature and high humidity Early stage of planting from maximum tillering to panicle initiation Ascomycete of Euphelis Oryzae Microscopic View of Fungus Ephelis Oryzae Top Management Strategies Use disease free seeds for sowing. Seed treatment with Captan or Thiram. Hot water treatment of the seeds at 50-540 C for 10 minutes before sowing gives effective control of the disease. Solar treatment of seeds is effective in killing the pathogen carried in the seeds, if any. It is also advisable to avoid using seeds from fields where the disease is noted. Removal and destruction of diseased panicles in field. Seed Treatment with Captan Solar Treatment of Seeds Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Yellow Dwarf (Mycoplasma Like Organism) Symptoms The infected plants are stunted and have yellowish green to whitish green leaves. There is excessive tillering and leaves became soft and droop slightly. Root growth is also reduced significantly. Chlorosis occurs on the leaves occasionally even spreading to the leaf sheaths. Streaks may also form parallel to the leaf veins. If plants are infected early they usually die before maturity, and even if they do survive no panicles are produced or only a small number with no grains. Rice Yellow Dwarf Yellow dwarf (Mycoplasmal Disease of Rice) Top Identification of pathogen Mode of spread The Mycoplasma Like Organism is transmitted by Nephotettix virescens and N. nigropictus with a latent period of 25-30 days. It survives on several grass weeds. Aquareovirus Particle of Rice Dwarf Virus Phytoreovirus Virion Top Management Strategies Deep ploughing during summer and burning of stubbles. Rice varieties like IR62 and IR64 are resistant to the disease. The management practices followed for Rice Tungro disease may be adopted for this disease also. Avoiding early-planted rice will prevent an increase in vector density and proportion of infected vectors. Planting fallow rice fields with non-vector hosts, ploughing fallow paddy fields, and late-planting, synchronous planting, or avoiding an over-lap of early- and late-planted rice crops. IR64 Ploughing Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Crab Symptoms Crab burrow on the sides of the bunds and live. They cut the young paddy plants near the ground level and carry them to their burrows for feeding. They are active during night; as they are nocturnal. Besides their crop damaging activity, they prepare a series of burrow in the paddy Fields due to which water is not retained in the field. Thus,crab is major crustacean pest of paddy crop, it requires intensive control. crab-organic-rice-field River-crab-in irrigation rice field Top Identification of pest Eggs: The eggs are bright orange when first deposited, but become yellow, brown, and then dark brown before hatching. Larvae: First stage larvae, called zoeae, measure approximately 0.25 mm wide at hatching; development to this stage requires 31-49 days. Juveniles: The juvenile "first crab" is typically 2.5 mm wide (from tip to tip of the lateral spines of the carapace). Juveniles gradual1y migrate in to shallower, less-saline waters in upper estuaries and rivers, where they grow and mature Adult: Sexual maturity is reached after 18-20 post larval molts, a t the age of 1-1.5 years. Males continue to molt and grow after they reach sexual maturity, but females cease to molt and grow when they mature and mate. Rice field crab Top Management Strategies Application of FYM at the time of puddling reduces crab damage. Block the mud holes on the farm bunds and mix paste of Silk Cotton (Bombax ceiba) tree bark, Embelia ribes fruits and Asafoeitda 2 kg each in 100 lit water in 1 ha. Crab burrows fumigated with the cyanogas dust. Poison baiting of 0.5% parathion with rice syrup at the rate of 80-100 ml per burrow is quite effective is controlling the crabs. Manuring Poison bait with insecticide Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Non Insect Pests Snails Rats White tip nematode Root knot nematode Crab Mite Non Insect Pest Besides, insects other invertebrates like nematodes, mites, snails, slugs, etc. vertebrates like rats, birds, jackals also cause damage to rice. Of course, insects are not the only pests that can cause economic damage to a rice crop. We all know that weeds, diseases, snails, rats and birds can be equally or even more devastating. Although the rice ecosystem doesn’t have nearly the same innate ability to take care of these pests and may need help, their economic control is also dependent on sound crop management practices that can prevent or minimize damage. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Mite Symptoms Infested plants look pale and loss of chlorophyll on the leaves will be seen by a dirty brown colour. Nature of damage: Both the adults and young ones remain in large numbers on the lower side and suck the juice. White patches can be seen as a result of desapping. Seedling in the nurseries and transplanted crop are affected. Panicle rice mite Spider-mites-in-rice Top Identification of pest Scientific Name: Oligonychus oryzae Minute globular eggs are laid singly on the leaves. Nymphs on hatching have only three pairs of legs and after the first moult, the fourth pair develop. Total life cycle will be completed in about 15 to 18 days. Rice mite and eggs Top Management Strategies Cultural controls include plowing stubble after harvesting crops and ensuring no re-growth of plant material for winter. Fallowing fields, rotation with an alternate crop. Cleaning machinery before using in an un-infested field Sampling 15 days after planting to catch mite populations at low levels, and avoidance of second-cropping. Systemic miticides will be the best option for chemical control. Effective acaricide – Spiromesifen at 72 g a.i/ha. Predatory mites may have the ability to suppress populations Predatory-mite Spiromesifen Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Rats Symptoms Symptoms: Chopped young seedlings Irregular cuttings of stem Patches of depressions seen in the field at early stage Chewed developing buds or ripening grains Tillers cut near base at 45° angle. Cut tillers may be seen in patches. At ripening stage, the ear heads are cut and stored in the burrows. Nature of damage: The rats enter the nurseries and nibble the seeds. After transplantation, the seedlings are cut. At the shoot blade stage, the culm is cut and At ripening stage, the ear heads are cut and stored in the burrows. Earheads are cut and stored in the burrows Holes or depressions seen in the field Top Identification of pest Lesser bandicoot / mole rat / field rat, Bandicota bengalensis Grass rat, Millardia meltada Gerbil rat, Tatera cuvieri, T. indica Indian field mouse, Mus booduga Rat (Rattus rattus rufuscens, Rattus meltada) Rice field rats are black to brown in color. They have scaly, thinly furred tails and distinctive chisel-like incisors. The rice field rat, R. argentiventer, is the major rodent pest and is distinguished by a tuft of red hair at the base of its ears, fur on back orange-brown flecked with black, and a silvery white ventrum. Factors favoring pest development: lowland irrigated rice crops both the wet and dry seasons availability of food, water, and shelter presence of breeding sites presence of major channels and village gardens Black Rat Rice field rat Top Management Strategies Physical control includes hunting, rat drives, digging, and exclusion. Narrow bund maintenance (45 × 30 cm). Digging burrows during the off season and killing, poison baiting with zinc phosphide or bromadiolone 3 to 4 weeks after planting, and setting up of Thanjavur or bamboo bow traps (100 nos/ha) are to be followed in sequence. Locate the burrows opened by the rats and insert two pellets each of 0.5 or 0.6g of aluminium phosphide per burrow as deep into the burrow as possible and plug the entrance with a mud ball. Poison bait at 1 part zinc phosphide with 49 parts popped corn/rice/dry fish or bromodialone 0.25 w/w (1:49) at 0.005%. Mix one part of bromodialone + 49 parts of bait and keep inside the field. Warfarin 0.5% 1 part with 19 parts of popped corn/rice/dry fish and keep in field. Setting up of owl perches at 40 -50/ha. Wildcats, snakes, and birds are predators of rice field rats. Effect of Poison Bait1 Bow trap Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Root Knot Nematode Symptoms Characteristic hooked-like galls on roots Newly emerged leaves appear distorted and crinkled along the margins Chlorosis and Stunting Heavily infected plants flower and mature early Reduction in number of tillers Size of the ear head is reduced with reduced number of grains root knot nematode Top Identification of pest Adult females appear to be pear-shaped to spheroid with elongated neck, which is usually embedded in root tissue. The stylet is mostly 9-18 µm long with tree small, prominent, dorsally curved basal knobs. Infective second stage juveniles are short (0.3-0.5 mm) and have a weak cephalic framework. The tail tip tapers to a long, fine point with a long hyaline region. Root knot Nematode Root Knot Nematode Top Management Strategies Cultural control includes continuous flooding, raising the rice seedlings in flooded soils, and crop rotation. Soil solarization with 50 – 100µ clear polythene sheets for 3 weeks before preparation of fields. Bare fallow period and planting cover crops such as sesame and cowpea has been reported to decrease nematodes. Rotation crop like marigold (Tagetes sp.) is also effective in lowering root knot nematode populations because of its nematicidal properties. Resistant varieties such as IR cultivars can be grown. Nematicides applied as soil drenches and seedling root dips or seed soaks to reduce nematode populations. Seeds can be treated with EPN and carbofuran. The roots can be dipped in systemic chemicals such as oxamyl or fensulfothion, phorate, carbofuran, and DBCP. Telone can be injected into the soil before the crop is planted. Resistant variety- IR 32 Telone Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies Golden Apple Snails Symptoms Missing seedlings Floating of cut leaves Cut stems Decreased plant stand Sparse or uneven stand Nature of damage The golden apple snails rasp plant tissue and cut of stems with their file-like radula or horny tongue. The golden apple snail is considered a major problem in direct-seeded rice. During dry periods or drought, the golden apple snails remain inactive in rice fields. Missing hills in transplanted paddy Presence of snails in field Top Identification of pest The golden apple snail has a muddy brown shell. The shell is lighter than the darker and smaller native snails. Its succulent flesh is creamy white to golden pinkish or orange-yellow. The male has a convex operculum that curves out or away from the shell, whereas the female lid curves into the shell. Neonates or the newly hatched snails have soft shell. The juveniles or young snails are <1.5 to 1.6 cm. Medium-sized snails have a shell height of 2 to 3 cm. The eggs are bright pink or strawberry pink. With age, they lighten in color or turn light pink when about to hatch. Factors favouring pest development wetland and dryland habitats irrigation canals and rivers presence of alternate hosts presence of young seedlings continuous flooding of the rice fields presence of both gills and lung-breathing organs ability to survive in any environmental condition golden Apple snail snail egg Top Management Strategies Mechanical Control Increase mortality by mechanical action. Install screens with 5 mm mesh at water inlets. This can minimize the entry of snails into the rice fields and will also facilitate hand-collection. Handpicking and crushing, staking with bamboo or other wooden stakes before and after transplanting can be practiced to facilitate egg mass collection. Use of a hand-operated device to smash egg clusters between two snail egg clappers can also reduce the snail population. Hand pick and crush the snail egg Collect and kill by mechanical action Cultural methods Planting older seedlings, planting at higher densities, or planting on ridges above the water line are advised against the golden apple snail. The field can be leveled-off or hydrotiller or rototiller to prepare the land. An off-season tillage to crush snails can also be employed. Snails can also be exposed to sun. Draining the field is also advised. Crop rotation with a dryland crop and fallow periods is also recommended as control. For easier drainage and collection of the golden apple snail, canalets can be constructed along bunds and inside paddyfield. Atractants like newspaper can be used. Good water management obtained by good levelling for the first two weeks is recommended. Off season tillage to crush snails Draining the field Chemical methods Molluscicides such as metaldehyde is recommended. Molluscicide-metaldehyde Biological methods The use of common carp, Japanese crucian, heron, and weasels as biological control agents against the golden apple snail. A firefly nymph is also an effective natural enemy of the snail. Herding ducks and raising fish in the paddy are also recommended as biological control. Birds prey on both eggs and neonates. Rats and snakes also feed on them Snake eating snail Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pathogen Management Strategies White Tip Nematode Symptoms This nematode is widely distributed in Tamil Nadu Feeding at leaf tips in rice results in whitening of the top 3-5 cm of the leaf, leading to necrosis known as "White Tip". Tips of developing leaves become twisted and crinkled. Diseased plants are stunted, lack vigor and produce small panicles. Affected panicles show high sterility, distorted glumes and small and distorted kernels. In extreme cases the affected grains become chaffy. When nematode carrying seeds are sown, the immature forms become active, move up the plant along a thin film of moisture and feed on the foliage ectoparasitically. Twisted and crinkled leaf tips Whitening and necrosis of leaf tips- white tip Top Identification of pest Aphelenchoides besseyi is best known as the causal agent of white tip disease of rice. It is a facultative ecto- and endoparasite of the leaves and young tissues of rice. The nematode is seed borne and can survive in a state of anhydrobiosis for several years on stored grain, but much less under field conditions. Reproduction is usually amphimictic, the life cycle taking 8 days at 23° C. It is characterized by a large metacorpus (median bulb), and esophageal glands usually overlapping dorsally. Ithas a slender body 0.44-0.84 mm long and 14-22 μm wide. In females, the excretory pore is usually near the anterior edge of the nerve ring. Male reproductive structures have no bursa and the spicules. Aphelenchoides besseyi White tip nematode Top Management Strategies Resistant varieties such as TPS 1, TPS 2 can be grown. Presoaking overnight and sun drying for 12 hours at 6 hrs/day for two days, two or three days prior to sowing to denematize the seeds. Hot water treatment of seed with 52 -53 degree C for 15 minutes can be used to destroy this nematode infecting the seeds. Apply carbofuran 3G in nursery @ 1.0 kg a.i/ha 7 days before transplanting. Apply cartaphydrochloride @ 1.0 kg a.i/ha at 45 DAT Aphelenchoides besseyi infestations can be avoided by using nematode-free seeds and planting in nematode-free planting material. Destruction of infected source of inoculum like seeds,weeds,debris left after harvest in field Chemical treatments of seed with Benomyl or Thiabendazole is being effective in controllingnematodes. Spraying of infested crop with Parathion (.025%) and Trichlorophos (0.03%) three times has been found to be effective. Chemical seed treatment with benomyl Apply Carbofuran Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Pest Leaf Folder Stem Borer Green Leafhopper Brown Plant Leafhopper White Blacked Plant hopper Thrips Ear Head Bug Swarming Caterpillar Gall Midge Case Worm Rice Skipper Grass Hopper Whorl Maggot Rice Hispa Yellow Hairy Caterpillar Rice Horned Caterpillar Black Bug Mealy Bug Root Grub Ants Crickets Mole crickets Crop Protection Pest An insect whose population increases to such an extent as to cause economic losses to crops or a nuisance and health hazard to man and livestock is termed as an insect pest. An insect may be a pest at one place but may not be so at another place. Insects injure plants by feeding on them and laying eggs in plant tissues. Losses from insect feeding may be direct or indirect. An orbitary limit of a pest population responsible to cause 5 per cent loss in any crops yield, is called the pest status. Insects that cause a loss of 5 to 10 per cent are considered minor pests and those that cause a loss of 10 per cent and above are considered to be major pests. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Brown plant hopper Symptom of Damage : Hopperburn or yellowing, browning and drying of plant. Circular patches of drying and lodging of matured plant. Nymphs and adults congregate at the base of the plant above the water level. Affected plant dries up and gives a scorched appearance called “hopper burn”. It is vector of grassy stunt, ragged stunt and wilted stunt diseases. Hopper burn caused by the plant hoppers is distinguished from other hopper burn symptom by the presence of visible sooty molds at the bases of the rice plant. Virus infected plants may also be found. Nature of Damage : Both the nymphs and adults remain at the ground level and suck the plant sap. It is a typical vascular feeder primarily sucking phloem sap leading to hopper burn. At early infestation, circular yellow patches appear which soon turn brownish due to the drying up of the plants. The patches of infestation then may spread out and cover the entire field. The grain setting is also affected to a great extent. During sustained feeding, it excretes a large amount of honeydew. Circular dry patches in field Completely withered and desapped plant Hopper burn symptom Presence of Brown plant hopper nymphs and adults Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Nilaparvata lugens Egg : Eggs are laid in a group of 2 to 12 in leaf sheath (near the plant base or in the ventral midribs of leaf blades). White, transparent, slender cylindrical and curved eggs are thrust in straight-line in two rows. (They are covered with a dome - shaped egg plug secreted by the female. Only the tips protrude from the plant surface). Nymph : Freshly hatched nymph is cottony white, 0.6 mm long and it turns purple-brown, 3.0 mm long in the fifth instar. Adult : Adult hopper is 4.5-5.0 mm long and has a yellowish brown to dark brown body. The wings are sub hyaline with a dull yellowish tint. It has two characteristic wing morphs: macropterous (long winged) and brachypterous (short winged). Egg Nymph Adult Adult Top Management Strategies: Cultural Methods: Draining the rice field for 3-4 days is recommended during the early stage of infestation. Nitrogen application can be split to reduce Brown plant hopper buildup. Synchronous planting within 3 weeks of staggering and maintaining a free-rice period could also decrease the build-up of Brown plant hopper. There are varieties released by IRRI, which contain genes for Brown plant hopper resistance, like IR26, IR64, IR36, IR56, and IR72. Use resistant varieties like PY 3, CO 42, ADT 35, ADT 37, PTB 33 and PTB 21, Aruna, Kanaka, Karthika, Krishnaveni, Makon, Abhey, Asha, Divya. Avoid close planting and provide 30 cm rogue spacing at every 2.5 to 3.0 m to reduce the pest incidence. Avoid excess use of nitrogen Intermittent draining of water Provide rogue spacing of 30 cm Use resistant variety IR 36 Chemical Methods: ETL : 2 / tiller when 1 spider / hill is present (or) 1 / tiller when spiders are not present (or) 1 hopper/ tiller in the absence of predatory spider and 2 hoppers /tiller when spider is present at 1/hill. Drain the water before use of insecticides and direct the spray towards the base of the plants. Avoid use of insecticides causing resurgence such as synthetic pyrethroids, methyl parathuion, fenthion and quinalphos. Spray any one of the following: Phosphamidon 40 SL 1000 ml/ha (or) Phosalone 35 EC 1500 ml/ha (or) Carbaryl 10 D 25 kg/ha (or) Methyl demeton 25 EC 1000 ml/ha (or) Acephate 75 SP 625 gm/ha (or) Chlorpyriphos 20 EC 1250 ml/ha Carbofuran 3 G 17.5 kg/ha (or) Dichlorvos 76 WSC 350 ml/ ha. Use of botanical methods : Neem oil 3% 15 lit/ha (or) Iluppai oil 6% 30 lit/ha (or) Neem seed kernel extract 5% 25 kg/ha Spray Chlorpyriphos Spray Phosphomidon Spray Acephate Use Illupai oil Biological Methods: Release of natural enemies like Lycosa pseudoannulata, Cyrtorhinus lividipennis adult (200 – 250 bugs/ha) during the peak incidence of brown plant hopper at 10 days interval. The common parasites of the eggs are the hymenopteran wasps. Eggs are preyed upon by mirid bugs and phytoseiid mites. Both eggs and nymphs are preyed upon by mirid bugs. Nymphs and adults are eaten by general predators, particularly spiders and coccinellid beetles. Hydrophilid and dytiscid beetles, dragonflies, damselflies, and bugs such as nepid, microveliid, and mesoveliid eat adults and nymphs that fall onto the water surface. Fungal pathogens also infect brown plant hoppers. Eggs are preyed by phytoseiid mites Natural enemy - lycosa pseudoannulata Natural enemy-cyrtorhinus lividipennis Predator - Coccinellid beetle Trap Methods: Set up light traps during night. Use yellow pan traps during day time. Care should be taken not to place light traps near seed beds or fields. Installation of light traps with incandescent light at 1-2 m height @ 4/ acre to monitor the population. At the base of light trap put a tub filled with water to which kerosene was added to kill the trapped insects. Incandescent light trap Setup light traps Use light trap during night time Use yellow pan trap during day time Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Green leaf hopper Symptom of Damage : Yellowing of leaves from tip to downwards. Plant stunted with reduced vigor Withering or complete drying of plant by sucking the plant sap. White or pale yellow eggs inside leaf sheaths or midribs. Pale green adults feeding on upper parts of the crop. Nature of Damage : Both nymphs and adults suck the plant sap from the leaf and leaf sheath. Mild infestation reduces the vigour of the plant and the number of reproductive tillers. Plants are predisposed to fungal and bacterial infection through feeding and ovipositional punctures. Tungro is transmitted during short feeding period. Orange yellowing of leaves Stunted plant with reduced vigor Nymphs feed on plant by sucking the sap Adults feed on plant by sucking the sap Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Egg : Greenish transparent eggs are deposited in the midrib of leaf blade or sheath of rice or green grass. They are laid in batches of 10 to 15 arranged in a single row. Nymph : The nymphs are soft bodied, yellow white in colour. Gradually the colour changes to green with five nymphal instars and become adults in 18-20 days. Adult : Adults are 3-5 mm long, bright green with variable black markings, wedge shaped with a characteristic diagonal movement. Male insect has a black spot in middle of the forewings that is absent in females. The insect is active during July to September. Nymph Adult Adult Top Management Strategies : Cultural Methods: The most effective means of GLH management is to use GLH-resistant and tungro-resistant varieties like IR 50, IR 54, IR 64, CR 1009, PY 3, Co 46 and white ponni . Apply neem cake @ 12.5 kg/20 cent nursery as basal dose. Transplanting older seedlings (>3 weeks) reduces viral disease susceptibility transmitted by leafhoppers. Nitrogen should be applied as needed to avoid contributing to population or hindering plant recovery from plant hopper damage by applying insufficient nitrogen. Good weed control in the field and on the bunds removes the preferred grassy hosts of Green leaf hopper and promotes crop vigor. Crop rotation with a non-rice crop during the dry season decreases alternate hosts for diseases. Upland rice intercropped with soybean reduces the incidence of leafhoppers on rice compared to rice alone Apply neem cake to nursery Use resistant variety - CR 1009 Use resistant varieties - White ponni Weed control on field and bunds Chemical Methods: ETL : 60/25 net sweeps (or) 5/hill at vegetative stage (or) 10/hill at flowering (or) 2/hill in tungro endemic area Scout the field for the presence of Tungro and Green leaf hopper. Check 20 hills while walking diagonally across a transplanted field. Spray insecticides twice, 15 and 30 days after transplanting. Spray any one of the following: Fenitrothion 50 EC 80 ml (or) Phosphamidon 40 SL 50 ml (or) Fenthion 100 EC 40 ml (or) Quinalphos 25 EC 80 ml (or) Phosalone 35 EC 120 ml (or)Monocrotophos 36 SL 40 ml. Maintain 2.5 cm of water in the nursery and broadcast anyone of the following in 20 cents Carbofuran 3 G 3.5 kg (or) Phorate 10 G 1.0 kg (or) Quinalphos 5 G 2.0 kg Spray Chlorpyriphos Spray Phosphamidon Spray Quinalphos Spraying of Insecticide Biological Methods: The major egg parasitoids are: • Oligosita yasumatsui (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae). • Anagrus spp. (Hymenoptera: Mymaridae). • Gonatocerus spp. (Hymenoptera: Mymaridae). The most abundant predator is the green mired bug Cyrtorhinus lividipennis which predate on both eggs and nymphs. Strepsipterans, small wasps, pipunculid flies, and nematodes parasitize both the nymphs and adults. They are also attacked by aquatic veliid bugs, nabid bugs, empid flies, damselflies, dragonflies, and spiders. A fungal pathogen infects both the nymphs and adults of the green leafhopper. BioControl Wasp - Gonatocerus spp Egg parasitoid - anagrus spp. Predator - Cyrtorhinus Lividipennis Spider Predator - Argiope Catenulata Natural enemies and predators: Natural enemies : Itoplectis narangae - Ichnuemonidae Wasp Trichomma cnaphalocrocis - Ichnuemonidae Wasp Predators : Release of mirid bug Cytorhinus lividipennis @ 50 – 75 egg/ m2 Natural Enemy - Trichomma cnaphalocrocis Predator - Micraspis crocea Trap Methods: Set up light traps to attract and kill the moths. Set up light trap one for at least 5 ha. Set up bird perches (40 to 50/ha) of Insectivorous Birds at vegetative phase of crop. Monitor through phermone traps (@ 10 to 12/ha for timely control measures. Change the lure at 15-20 days intervals. Set up light trap Use pheromone traps Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Stem borer Symptom of Damage : Presence of brown coloured egg mass near the leaf tip. In vegetative stage larva enters the stem and feeds on the growing shoot and causes drying of the central shoot known as “dead heart”. In grown up plant whole ear heads become dried and yield chaffy grains called as “white ear”. Nature of Damage : In the vegetative phase, the central shoot dies off turning yellow in colour (dead heart). In the ear bearing stage, the ear head appears completely chaffy and white in colour (white ear head). Both come out easily when pulled up and show indication of feeding injuries at the base. Dead heart Dried up central shoot Bore hole White ear with chaffy grains Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Scirpophaga incertulas Egg : Eggs are creamy white, flattened, oval and laid in a mass which is covered with buff coloured hairs. They are laid mostly near the tip of the leaves. Egg period is 5-8 days. Larva : Pale yellow with dark brown head having prothoracic shield. Larval period is 28 to 30 days. Pupa : White silken cocoon. Pupation takes place inside the rice stem, straw or stubble. Pupal period is 8 to 10 days. Adult : Female moth : Has bright yellowish brown with a black spot at the centre of the fore wings and a tuft of yellow hairs at the anal region. Male moth : Smaller with pale yellow forewings without black spot. Egg Larva Adult Top Management Strategies : Cultural Methods: Field should be necessarily be scouted during the vulnerable crop growth stages for early detection of dead hearts and white ear. Removal and proper disposal of stubbles will keep the borer population low in next crop. Grow resistant varieties like Ratna, TKM 6, IR 20 , IR 40, IR 56, ADT 47, ADT 48, ASD 20, IR 36, ADT 44, PY 4, ADT 46, Madhu, Kanchana, Swarnapraba, karthika, Deepthi and Tellahamsa. Clip the tip of the seedlings before transplanting to eliminate egg masses. Collect and destroy the egg masses. Avoid close planting and continuous water stagnation at early stages. Pull out and destroy the affected tillers. Harvest the crop up to the ground level and disturb the stubbles with plough immediately after the harvest to keep the borer population low in next crop. Disturb stubbles after harvest Harvest the Crop to Ground Level Use Resistant Varieties - ADT 47 Use Resistant Varieties - IR 36 Chemical Methods: ETL : 2 egg masses/m2 (or) 10% dead heart at vegetative stage (or) 2% White ear at Flowering stage. When natural enemies of stem borers are present, application of chemical measures can be delayed or dispensed with. The newly hatched borer larvae must be flit with 2 rounds of quinalphos or phosphomidon at 1000ml/ha at 7 days interval. Spray any one of the following based on ETLs : Quinalphos 25 EC 1000 ml/ha (or) Phosphamidon 40 SL 600 ml/ha (or) Profenophos 50 EC 1000 ml/ha. Spray Phosphomidon Spray Profenophos Spray Quinalphos Spraying of pesticide Biological Methods: Release of egg parasitoid Trichogramma japonicum thrice at weekly interval starting 28 days after transplanting @ 5 cc (1 lakh egg parasitoids)/ha/release. followed by the release of Trichogramma japonicum at 35 and 42 DAT. Apply Bacillus thuringiensis var kurstaki at 2.5 kg/ha to reduce the oviposition by the stem borer. Release the egg cards in field during morning hours. Tie the egg cards under the leaf surface facing outside. Avoid spraying of chemicals on three days before and upto to seven days after field release of egg cards. Apply Bacillus thuringiensis Egg parasitoid Trichogramma egg card Trichogramma japonicum egg card Natural enemies and predators: Natural enemies : Tetrastichus schoenobii – Wasp Telomomous rowani – Wasp Stenobracon nicevillei – Braconidae Cotesia flavipes – Braconidae Agriocnema pygmae - Damselfly Predators : Lycosa pseudoannulata – Spider predator Metioche vittaticollis - Cricket Natural enemy - Cotesia flavipes Natural enemy - Metioche vittaticollis Predator- Lycosa pseudoannulata Trap Methods: Set up one light trap/5 ha to attract and kill the moths. Set up bird perches to encourage bird predators. Use sex pheromone trap for the control of rice stem borer. Monitor through pheromone traps (@ 10 to 12/ha) for timely control measures. Change the lure at 15-20 days intervals. Use Pheromone trap Set up bird perches Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Thrips Symptom of Damage : Laceration of the tender leaves and suck the plant sap Yellow (or) silvery streaks on the leaves of young seedlings. Terminal rolling and drying of leaves from tip to base. Damaged leaves roll inwards along the margins, feeding causes leaf drying resulting poor crop growth. The damage is severe under water stress conditions. It causes damage both in nursery and main field. Nature of Damage : Both the adults and nymphs lacerate the tender leaves and suck up the plant sap. As a result fine yellowish lines or silvery streaks are seen on the leaves. Later, the leaves curl longitudinally and begin to dry from the tip downwards In severe cases, the entire nursery may dry up and fail to produce seedling. Sometimes transplanted crop is also affected in the early stages. Laceration of tender leaves Silvery streaks on the leaves Infected leaves roll inwards along the margins Terminal rolling and drying of leaves Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Stenchaetothrips biformis Egg : Eggs are laid singly in the tissues of the tender leaves on the sides facing the stem. Eggs are hyaline and turn pale yellow as they mature. Eggs are laid in the slits of leaf blade tissue. The upper half of the egg is exposed. Nymph : Newly hatched nymphs are transparent but turn yellowish white after the first molt and possess darker legs, head and antennae. Neonate larvae feed on the soft tissues of unopened young leaves. Pupa : Pupation takes place inside the rolled leaves and appendages and wings are clearly visible. Adult : Adult is 1mm long, dark brown to black in colour with fringed wings. Male is smaller, more slender than female. It reproduces partheno-genetically since males are seldom seen in the population. Nymph Winged Nymph Adult Adult Top Management Strategies : Cultural Methods: Submerge infected crops intermittently for 1-2 days. Drag a wet cloth on the seedlings. Flooding to submerge the infested field for 2 days as a cultural control practice is very effective against the rice thrips. There are identified cultivars with known resistance to the rice thrips. Use resistant/tolerant varieties. Flood the infected nursery Submerge infected field Chemical Methods: ETL : Sampling: Wet your palm with water and pass over the foliage in 12 places in the nursery. If thrips population exceeds 60 numbers in 12 passes or if rolling of 1/2 area of first and 2nd leaves in 10% of seedlings is noticed Spray any one of the following in nursery stage : Phosphamidon 40 SL 50 ml Spray any one of the following in main field stage Phosphamidon 40 SL 50 ml Spray Phosphomidan Spraying of pesticide Biological Methods: Predatory thrips, coccinellid beetles, anthocorid bugs, and staphylinid beetles are biological control agents that feed on both the nymph and adults. Anthocorid bug Coccinellid beetles predatory thrips staphylinid beetles Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies White backed plant hopper Symptom of Damage : Suck the sap and cause stunted growth. ‘Hopper burn’ is caused in irregular patches. Nature of Damage : White backed plant hopper is more abundant during the early stage of the growth of rice crop, especially in nurseries. Rice is more sensitive to attack at the tillering phase than at the boot and heading stages. Damage is caused through feeding and oviposition. Gravid females cause ovipositional punctures in leaf sheaths. Both nymphs and adults suck phloem sap causing reduced vigour, stunting, yellowing of leaves and delayed tillering and grain formation. Rice crop fails to produce complete grains [seedless glumes] and this condition is known as red disease. Feeding puncture and lacerations caused by ovipositor predispose the plants to pathogenic organisms and honeydew excretion encourages the growth of sooty mould. Circular dry patches in field Completely desapped plant Hopper burn symptom Presence of nymphs and adults Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Sogatella furcifera Egg : Cylindrical eggs are laid in groups when the rice plant is small but in the upper part of the rice plant when the plant is large. Nymph : White to a strongly mottled dark grey or black and white in colour and 0.6 mm size when young. Fifth instar nymph with a narrow head and white or creamy white body. Dorsal surface of the thorax and abdomen marked with various amounts of grey and white markings. Adult : The adult hopper is 3.5 - 4.0 mm long. The forewings are uniformly hyaline with dark veins. There is a prominent white band between the junctures of the wings. Macropterous males and females and brachypterous females are commonly found in the field. Nymph Adult Nymph and Adult Nymph and adult Top Management Strategies : Cultural Methods: Avoid use of excessive nitrogenous fertilizers Control irrigation by intermittent draining Synchronous planting within 3 weeks of staggering and maintaining a free-rice period could also decrease the build-up of Brown plant hopper. There are varieties released by IRRI, which contain genes for White backed plant hopper resistance, like IR26, IR64, IR36, IR56, and IR72. Avoid close planting and provide 30 cm rogue spacing at every 2.5 to 3.0 m to reduce the pest incidence. Avoid excess use of nitrogen Intermittent draining of water Provide rogue spacing of 30 cm Use resistant variety IR 36 Chemical Methods: ETL : 1 hopper/ tiller in the absence of predatory spider and 2 hoppers /tiller when spider is present at 1/hill. Spray any one of the following: Phosphamidon 40 SL 1000 ml/ha (or) Carbofuran 3 G 17.5 kg/ha (or) Dichlorvos 76 WSC 350 ml/ ha. Use of botanical methods : 3-5 % Andrographis paniculata kashaayam (or) Garlic, ginger,chilli extract (or) Neem oil 3% @ 15 lit/ha (or) Illupai oil 6% @ 30 lit/ha (or) Neem seed kernel extract 5% @ 25 kg/ha Spray Phosphomidan Spray Carbofuran Use Illupai oil Use Neem seed kernal extract Biological Methods: Release egg parasitoid Anagrus sp and adults and nymphs of Pachygonatopus sp. Effective predators are Coccinella arcuata,Cyrtorrhinus lividipennis and Tytthus parviceps. The common parasites of the eggs are the hymenopteran wasps. Eggs are preyed upon by mirid bugs and phytoseiid mites. Both eggs and nymphs are preyed upon by mirid bugs. Nymphs and adults are eaten by general predators, particularly spiders and coccinellid beetles. Hydrophilid and dytiscid beetles, dragonflies, damselflies, and bugs such as nepid, microveliid, and mesoveliid eat adults and nymphs that fall onto the water surface. White backed plant hopper population can be regulated by natural biological control agents. For example, small wasps parasitize the eggs. Predatory mites and mirid feed upon both the eggs and nymphs. Predators for the nymphs and adults are aquatic dytiscid and hydrophilid beetles, immature forms of damselflies and dragonflies, and water-dwelling veliid and mesoveliid bugs. Spiders, stapphylinid beetles, carabid beetles and lygaeid bugs search the plant for White backed plant hopper nymphs and adults. Eggs are preyed by phytoseiid mites Natural enemy - Lycosa pseudoannulata Natural enemy - Cyrtorhinus lividipennis Predactor - Coccinellid beetle Trap Methods: Set up light traps during night. Use yellow pan traps during day time. Installation of light traps with incandescent light at 1-2 m height @ 4/ acre to monitor the population. Incandescent light trap Setup light traps Use light trap during night time Use yellow pan trap during day time Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Ants Symptom of Damage : Mainly occur in upland rice. Missing rice seeds No plants or missing plants. Loss of plant stand. Patchy distribution of damage in the field Ant damage Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Solenopsis geminata Egg : The queen ant usually lays 75 to 125 eggs in a cluster. Pupa : Pupa is whitish in color and they develop in the nests. Adult : Adult ants have reddish brown body with brown head. They have robust mandibles and mandibular teeth. Ant Top Management Strategies: Increasing the seeding rate helps to compensate for losses caused by ants. Treatment of seeds with insecticides in powder form is the most effective method of controlling ants. Increase seed rate Treat the seeds with insecticides Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Army worm Symptom of Damage : Larvae cut the seedlings in large scale. Severe infestation - cattle grazing appearance to the field. They feed gregariously and march from field to field. Nature of Damage : Caterpillars march in large numbers in the evening hours and feed on the leaves of paddy seedlings till the morning and hide during daytime. They feed gregariously and after feeding the plants in one field march onto the next field. Under severe infestation crop gives the grazed appearance. Attacked plants are reduced to stumps. Nurseries situated in ill-drained marshy areas attacked earlier than dry ground. Damage is severe during July to September. Irregular feeding by caterpillar Leaves completely eaten away by the caterpillars Presence of larva Defoliated leaves Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Spodoptera mauritia Egg : Eggs are spherical and creamy in colour, which are laid in a group covered over with grey hairs. Larva : The caterpillars are light green with yellowish white lateral and dorsal stripes in the early stage and later become dark brown or grayish green in colour with a crescent (Semi-circular) shaped black spot on the side of each segment. Pupa : They pupate inside the soil in earthen cocoons. Pupa is dark brown and measures 16-17mm long. Adult : The adult moth is medium sized, stout built dark brown with a conspicuous triangular black spot on the forewings. Hind wings are brownish white with thin black margins. Adult Larva Top Management Strategies: Cultural Methods : Drain the water in the field. Flooding the nursery makes the hiding larvae to come to the surface and thus they are picked by birds. Kerosenate the water while irrigation – suffocation Allow ducks into the field. Apply kerosene to water Flood the nursery to expose hiding larva Flood the stubbles and incorporate Trimming of bunds to remove alternate hosts Chemical Methods : Spray chlorpyriphos 20 EC 80ml + 20 lit of water for 8 cents Dust the crop with Malathion dust Spray Chlorpyriphos Spraying of pesticide Biological Methods: Parasitoids such as tachinids, ichneumonids, eulophids, chalcids, and braconid wasps parasitize this pest. Meadow grasshoppers, ants, birds and toads feed on the pest. Egg parasitoid - Telenomus remus Parasitic larva emerging from armyworm Predator - Bubulcus coromandus Pupal parasitoid - Netelia sp. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Black bug Symptom of Damage : Presence of bugs at the base of the stem just above the water level. Plants stunted with reduced number of tillers; leaves turn reddish brown and dry. Stunting of plant with chlorotic lesions on leaves. Stunted panicles, no panicles, or incompletely exerted panicles, and unfilled spikelets or whiteheads at booting. Nature of Damage : Both nymphs and adult bugs remain and feed the plant sap on the base of the plants causing stunting of plants. Leaves turn reddish brown and grains do not develop. Bugs feed on the panicles in milky stage result in brown spot or empty grains in the panicles. Heavy bug infestation may cause death to the plants and whole field appears burned called bug burn similar to hopper burn. Presence of black bugs at the base of the stem Chlorotic lesions on leaves Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Scotinophora lurida Egg : Eggs are cylindrical, greenish and laid in small groups of ten in two rows on the leaves. Nymph : Young nymph is brown with yellowish green abdomen and a few black spots. Adult : Adults are flat, 7-9 mm long, brownish black bugs with a prominent scutellum and pronotum having a spine on either side. It is active on the cloudy days and during night. Adults or late nymphal stage aestivate in cracks in bunds. Black bug Adult Adult Top Management Strategies: 10% damage at tillering stage or 5 bugs / hill. Maintain a clean field by removing the weeds and drying the rice field during ploughing. Rice varieties of the same maturity date may be planted to break the insect’s cycle. Direct-seeded rice crops tend to have less tillers in one planting point and thus discourage population growth. Flooding the fields can also cause higher egg mortality. Set up light trap during the full moon period to attract large number of bugs and kill. Conserve the predators viz Spiders, coccinellids and wasps to check the pest. Ducks can be allowed in the field to pick up the bugs. Spray acephate 625 g / ha (or) Neem seed kernal extract 5% for effective control of black bug. Allow ducks to pick the bug Conserve predator - Spider Set up light traps Spray Neem Seed Kernal Extract Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Case worm Symptom of Damage : Full grown caterpillars found in tubular cases made out of paddy leaf, attached hanging to the leaf blade. The caterpillar skeletonises the leaves in ladder like manner. Pupation in the cases, which are attached to the lower side of the basal leaves. Caterpillars feed on green tissues of the leaves and leave become whitish papery Tubular cases around the tillers by cutting the apical portion of leaves Floating of tubular cases on the water Leaves cut at right angles as if with a pair of scissors. Floating of tubular cases around the tillers Papery white leaves Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Orseolia oryzae Egg : Eggs are light yellow, disc like, smooth and irregular in shape. They are laid on the underside of the leaves floating on the water. Larva : They hatch into green caterpillars with orange brownish head. Each caterpillar lives inside a tubular case and hang down the leaves. Full-grown caterpillars measure upto 15 mm length. Pupa : It pupates inside the leaf case. Fresh pupae are milky white, which gradually turn to light yellow. Adult : The adult is a small delicate moth having white wings speckled with pale brown wavy markings. Females are larger than males. Egg lying takes place in the night. Larva Adult Moth Top Management Strategies: Cultural Methods: A rope may be passed over the young crop for dislodging the larval cases from the tillers and then the water may be drained for eliminating them or pass the rope from one end to other end to dislodge the eggs. Use of correct fertilizer application, wider spacing and early planting. Application of kerosene at the rate of six litres/acre. Pass the rope to dislodge casetubes and eggs Apply Kerosene to Water Chemical Methods: Spray methyl parathion 0.05% (or) Quinalphos 0.05% Spray Quinalphos Biological Methods: Snails are useful predators of eggs of the rice caseworm. The larvae are fed upon by the hydrophilid and dytiscid water beetles. Spiders, dragonflies, and birds eat the adults. Hydrophilid beetle preys caseworm larva Larvae are fed by dystid water beetle Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Cricket Symptom of Damage : Irregular to longitudinal exit holes Cutting of central portions of the leaf blades leaving only the midrib Dead heart. Cricket damage Cricket feeding damage Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Euscyrtus concinnus Egg : Individual eggs are elongate-ovoid. Newly laid eggs are whitish and turn orange with age. Nymph : The nymph has the same color as the adult. It is a smaller version of the adult except for its wing pads. It has a pair of brown to black spots along its abdomen. Adult : The adult gryllid is pale brown. It measures 1.0 to 1.8 cm long. It has long antennae and legs. The female has a long and spear-shaped ovipositor. The female is longer in size than the male gryllid. Cricket Long horned cricket Long horned cricket Top Management Strategies: Maintaining standing water in the field prevents crickets from field by tunneling into the soil and damaging the crop. Poisoned baits made by mixing moistened rice bran and insecticide that can be placed along rice bunds can kill night-foraging field crickets. In deep water areas, the main control measure is chemical treatment with soil or seeds at planting. Sphecid species such as Liris aurulenta, Motes manilae, Motes subtessellatus and Motes loboriosus parasitize field crickets. Liris aurulenta Poisoned bait with rice bran Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Ear head bug Symptom of Damage : Sucking the sap from individual grains, which are in milky stage. Due to de-sapping, grains show brownish discoloured patches on the husk. Individual grains become chaffy and erect panicles. Black spots on the grains at the site of feeding puncture. In the case of heavy infestation, the whole ear head may become devoid of mature grains. Buggy odour in rice field during milky stage. Obnoxious odour eminates on disturbing the bugs. Nature of Damage : Both adults and nymphs do the damage. The nymphs start feeding 3 to 4 hours after hatching. They feed on the leaf sap near the tip / on milky sap in developing spikelets at milky stage. Sucking of the milky sap causes ill-filled / partial filled and chaffy grains. . They omit bad smell hence they are called Gundhi bugs. Serious infestation can reduce the yield by 50%. The straw gives off-flavour that is unattractive to the cattle. Feeding injuries and spots on grains Chaffy and erect panicles Infected leaves roll inwards along the margins Terminal rolling and drying of leaves Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Leptocorisa acuta Egg : Eggs are circular, brownish seed like, 2 mm long, laid in clusters in two rows along the midrid on the upper surface of the leaf-blade. Nymph : First instar is small, 2 mm long, pale green in colour, which grows to deep green through different instars. Adult : Adults are greenish yellow, long and slender, above ½ inch in length with a characteristic buggy odour. Egg Nymph Adult Adult Top Management Strategies: Cultural Methods: Strict vigilance is necessary at milky stage. Cultural control measures include the removal of alternate hosts such as grasses on bunds, early planting, and the use of late-maturing cultivars. Keep the field and bunds free of weeds and grasses. Netting and handpicking the bugs reduce their numbers. Putting attractants such as arasan or anything with an odor like dead snails or rats can easily capture rice bugs in the field. Coarse-grain and bearded cultivars may be resistant to the rice bugs. Hand picking of bugs Keep the field weed free Use coarse grain variety - TMK 9 Use hand nets to pick the bugs Chemical Methods: ETL : 5 bugs/100 ear heads at flowering and 16 bugs/100 ear heads from milky stage to grain maturity When the bug is seen in large numbers apply one of the following insecticides at 25 kg/ha twice, the first during flowering and second a week later. KKM dust formulation consists of 10% of Acorus calamus rhizome powder and 90% of fly ash. This dust formulation repels the rice earhead bug. Since the occurrence of the bug coincides with the flowering stage, application of the insecticide may be done either before 9 a.m. or after 3 p.m. so that fertilization of the flowers is not adversely affected. Spray any one of the following twice Fenthion 100 EC @ 500 ml/ha (or) Malathion 50 EC @ 500 ml/ha Acorus calamus rhizome dust - repels the bug Carbaryl dust Spraying of pesticide Use Malathion Biological Methods: Among the biological control agents, small wasps parasitize the eggs and the meadow grasshoppers prey on them. Both the adults and nymphs are preys to spiders, coccinellid beetles and dragonflies. A fungus infects both nymphs and adults. Meadow Grasshopper Coccinellid beetles Bugs are prey to dragonflies Small wasps parasitizes the egg Botanical Methods: Use any one of the following : Neem seed kernel extract 5%@25kg/ha Notchi leaf powder extract 5% Ipomoea leaf powder extract 5% Prosopis leaf powder extract 5% Use ipomoea leaf extract Use Neem Seed Kernal Extract Use Notchi Leaf Extract Use prosopis powder extract Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Gall midge Symptom of Damage : Presence of silver shoot or “onion leaf” in the place of central leaf is the prominent symptom. The symptom appears from the nursery to the flowering stage. Formation of a hollow cavity or tubular gall at the base of the infested tiller. Infected tillers inhibit growth of leaves and fails to produce panicles. Stunted plants and deformed, wilted, and rolled leaf Presence of onion or silver shoot Presence of tubular galls Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Orseolia oryzae Egg : Reddish, elongate, tubular eggs just near the ligule of the leaf blade Larva : Maggot is pale to red colour feeds inside the gall. Pupa : Pupates at the base of the gall and moves to tip of the gall. Adult : Adult is orange coloured mosquito like fly Egg Maggot Adult Adult Top Management Strategies: Cultural Methods: Use resistant varieties like MDU 3, Shakthi, Vikram, Sureka, Pavithra, Panchami and Uma. Avoid late transplantation during the first crop season. Harvest the crop and plough immediately. Use optimum seed rate of 100 kg/ha. Optimum recommendation of potash fertilizer. Destruction of collateral host like wild rice Cynodon dactylon, Ischaemum aristatum, Echinochloa spp. and Isachne sp. Setup light trap and monitor the adult flies. Infra red light traps Use resistant variety - MDU 3 Chemical Methods: Dipping germinated seed in 0.2% chlorpyrifos solution for 3 hours before sowing give protection up to 30 days. In transplanted crop the root of seedlings may be dipped in 0.02% chlorpyrifos suspension for 12 hours prior to planting. In areas where the pest is of regular occurrence, apply granules of phorate 10G (1.5 kg ai/ha), carbofuran 3G (0.5 kg ai/ha), quinalphos (1.5 kg ai/ha) or chlorpyrifos 10G (0.5 kg ai/ha) within 10 days after sowing. The granules should be broadcast in 2-3 cm of water and the field should be impounded for at least 4 days. Apply phorate granules Root dipping of seedlings in chlorpyriphos Biological Methods: Natural biological control agents such as platygasterid, eupelmid, and pteromalid wasps, which parasitize the larvae, is effective. Release of platygaster oryzae parasitized galls @ 1 per 10 sq.m in the main field on 10 DAT against gall midge. The pupa is host to two species of eupelmid wasps. Phytoseiid mites feed upon the eggs, whereas spiders eat the adults. Larval parasitoid - Platygaster oryzae Spider predator - Tetragnatha Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Grass hopper Symptom of Damage : Irregular feeding on seedlings and leaf blade Large portions of leaf edges consumed. Cutting of stem at panicle stage. Completely defoliate the plants leaving only the mid ribs. Presence of nymphs and adults feeding on paddy foliage. Irregular feeding on leaves Leaves are defoliated from the margin or tip irregularly Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Pelopidas mathias Egg : The eggs are laid in batches of 30-40, hatch only in June to July on receipt of the monsoon rains. Eggs are yellowish and covered with gummy substrate that hardens into a waterproof coating. Nymph : The nymphs feed on the grasses and paddy crop. Adult : They grow into adults by August to September. Hieroglyphus banian (Large Grasshopper) measures about 1 ½ inch long. There are three transverse dark lines on the prothorax, which is helpful for identifying the pest. Oxya nitidula (Small grasshopper) is about one inch long and has a longitudinal brown streak on either side of the thorax. Grass hopper Grass hopper Top Management Strategies: Cultural Methods: Flooding the stubbles, trimming the bunds, sweeping along the bunds and adult grass hoppers can be picked directly from the foliage at night because they are sluggish. Expose the eggs to be picked up by birds after ploughing and trim the bunds. Allow ducks into the field Flood the nursery Chemical Methods: Dusting the crop with 5-10% methyl parathion 2% @ 25-30 kg/ha. Dusting malathion 5% @ 20 kg/ha. Foliar sprays of insecticides can also control grasshoppers. Malathion dust Biological Methods: Scelionid wasps parasitize the eggs of short-horned grasshopper. A platystomatid fly and mite prey on the eggs of oriental migratory locust. Different species of ants feed on the nymphs and adults. They are also prey to birds, bats, field rats, mice, wild pigs, dogs, millipedes, fish, amphibia, reptiles and monkeys. Egg parasitoid - Telenomus remus Parasitic larva emerging from armyworm Pupal parasitoid-Netelia sp. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Leaf folder Symptom of Damage : Leaves folded longitudinally and larvae remain inside. Larvae scrape the green tissues of the leaves and become white and dry. During severe infestation the whole field exhibits whitish scorched appearance. Nature of Damage : The leaves of the plant are seen folded, rolled and often webbed together with white patches on them indicating the areas fed by caterpillar. When such folded leaves are opened up, larvae can be seen. Leaves folded longitudinally Larva scraps green tissues of leaves Whitish scorched appearance Presence of larva Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Egg : Flat, oval in shape and yellowish white in colour. Larva : Greenish translucent, prothoracic shield straight apically and rounded laterally. Pupa : Pupal period is 7 to 10 days. Adult : Moth is yellow brownish wings with many dark wavy lines in centre and dark band on margin of wings. Leaf folder larva Leaf folder adult Top Management Strategies: Cultural Methods: Use resistant varieties like, Cauveri, Akashi, TKM 6, TKM 12, ADT 46,TPS 2, TPS 3, ADT 44, PY 4, Kairali,Ahalya,kunju kunju varna, kunju kunju priya, Reshmi (PTB 44), Neeraja(PTB 47) and Deepthi. Keep the bunds clean by trimming them and remove the grassy weeds. Avoid use of excessive nitrogenous fertilizers. Avoid use of carbofuran (or) phorate granules to control resurgence of pests. Clipping of the affected leaves. Use of rope to dislodge the leaf feeding larvae of leaf folders. Open up the leaf folds with the help of a thorny twig. Avoid Use of Phorate Granules Keep the bunds clean Use resistant varieties ADT 46 Use resistant varieties TPS3 Chemical Methods: ETL : 10% leaf damage at vegetative phase and 5% of flag leaf damage at flowering. The population should be estimated on the basis of careful and regular surveillance. When natural enemies of leaf folders are present, application of chemical measures can be delayed or dispensed with. In the initial stages restrict spraying to infested patches only. The field may be sprayed completely in case the infestation occurs uniformly. Spray any one of the following based on ETLs : Fenitrothion 50 EC 1000 ml/ha (or) Phosalone 35 EC 1500 ml/ha (or) Quinalphos 25 EC 1000 ml/ha (or) Dichlorvos 76 WSC 250 ml/ha (or) Phosphamidon 40 SL 600 ml/ha (or) Chlorpyriphos 20 EC 1250 ml/ha (or) Carbaryl 50 WP 1.0 kg/ha (or) Fenthion 100 EC 500 ml/ha (or) Profenophos 50 EC 1000 ml/ha. Spray Chlorpyriphos Spray Phosphamidon Spray Quinalphos Spraying of Insecticide Biological Methods: Release Trichogramma chilonis (Egg Parasitoids) thrice on 37, 44 and 51 DAT @ 5 cc(1 lakh egg parasitoids)/ha/release. Release the egg cards in field during morning hours. Tie the egg cards under the leaf surface facing outside. Avoid spraying of chemicals three days before and upto seven days after field release of egg cards. Trichogramma chilonis Field release of Trichogramma Natural enemies and predators: Natural enemies : Itoplectis narangae - Ichnuemonidae Wasp Trichomma cnaphalocrocis - Ichnuemonidae Wasp Predators : Release of mirid bug Cytorhinus lividipennis @ 50 – 75 egg/ m2 Natural Enemy - Trichomma cnaphalocrocis Predator - Micraspis crocea Trap Methods: Set up light traps to attract and kill the moths. Set up light trap one for at least 5 ha. Set up bird perches (40 to 50/ha) of Insectivorous Birds at vegetative phase of crop. Monitor through phermone traps (@ 10 to 12/ha for timely control measures. Change the lure at 15-20 days intervals. Set up light trap Use pheromone traps Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Mealy bug Symptom of Damage : The damage is by sucking of the plant sap. An infested field shows isolated patches of stunted and sickly looking plants. The seedlings in the dry nursery are badly affected. Large number of insects remains in leaf sheath and suck the sap. Presence of white waxy fluff in leaf sheaths. Called as Soorai disease or Chakdhora or Damaged spots. Nature of Damage : Large numbers of these insects’ remains inside the leaf sheaths and suck up the plant sap. The affected tillers remain stunted with yellowish curled leaves. When the attack is severe, it inhibits panicle emergence. In severe cases, yield may be reduced even up to 50%. White soft bodied nymphs and adults remains inside the leaf sheath Desapped leaves Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Bravennia rohi Egg : The female lays numerous yellowish white eggs/simply deposits nymphs in outer leaf sheaths. Nymph : The newly hatched nymphs crowded within the waxy threads for 6-10 h before they disperse to various parts of the same plant. The pale yellowish nymph is active and crawls about the plant for a while and settled itself on the plant / stem and turns dark yellow after a day. Body gets covered with waxy material on second day. Adult : Nymphs and adults being wingless look alike. Wingless insect covered with filamentous materials. Female are reddish, oval, soft-bodied living in colonies inside the leaf sheath. Males are small, slender, pale – yellow, having single pair of wings and a style like process at the end of the abdomen but lack mouthparts. Mealy bug Mealy bug Top Management Strategies: Remove the grasses from the bunds and trim the bunds. Remove and destroy the affected plants. Spray any one of the following insecticides in the initial stage of infestation. Fenitrothion 50 EC 1000 ml, Phosalone 35 EC 1500 ml and dimethoate 30 EC 500 ml / ha. Conserve the natural enemies like Scymnus sp.,Anatrichus pygmaeus, and Mepachymerus ensifer. Natural enemy - Scymnus sp Pesticide spraying Removal of grasses on bunds Spray Dimethoate Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Mole Cricket Symptom of Damage : Loss of plant stand Seedlings cut at the base. Poor seedling growth. Seedling death. Missing plants. Root damages. Mole Cricket damage Mole Cricket feeding damage Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Gryllotalpa orientalis Egg : Eggs are oblong to oval and gray with a shiny surface.They are 2.6 mm long. The eggs are deposited in a hole constructed by the adult female. Nymph : Neonate nymph has a white and bluish prothorax and legs. With age, it turns gray to black with white markings. The last nymphal stage is similar to the adult except for its short wing pads. Adult : The adult mole cricket is brownish and very plump. It measures 25-40 mm long. It has short antennae and its folded wings do not cover the entire length of the abdomen. The enlarged front legs, which are modified for digging, have strong teeth-like structures. Mole Cricket Mole Cricket Top Management Strategies: Cultural control includes maintaining standing water, which can help to remove the eggs on the soil. The eggs can also be eliminated using bund shaving and plastering of fresh wet soil. Levelling the field provides better water control. Construction of a raised nursery should be avoided to reduce feeding damage on seedlings. For natural biological control, a sphecid wasp, carabid beetle, nematodes, and a fungus are recorded as important natural enemies of the mole cricket. Mole crickets eat each other when they are together because of their cannibalistic behavior. Poisoned baits made by mixing moistened rice bran and insecticide that can be placed along rice bunds can kill night-foraging mole crickets. Maintain Standing water Sphecid wasp Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Spiny Beetle / Rice Hispa Symptom of Damage : The mining of the grubs will be clearly seen on the leaves. Scraping of the upper surface of the leaf blade leaving only the lower epidermis as white streaks parallel to the midrib. Tunneling of larvae through leaf tissue causes irregular translucent white patches that are parallel to the leaf veins. Damaged leaves wither off. Rice field appears burnt when severely infested. Nature of Damage : The grub mines into the leaf blade and feed on the green tissue between the veins. Adults also feed in the green tissue; they scrape green matter of the tender leaves. Generally the plants are affected in the young stage. Mining of leaves by grubs Presence of beetles with scrapping on leaves Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Dicladispa armigera Egg : Eggs are laid inside minute slits on the tender leaves generally toward the tip. Grub : The grub is whitish yellow and flattened. It feed inside the leaf tissue by mining. It pupates inside. Adult : The adult beetle is somewhat square shaped about 1/6 to 1/8” in length and width Dark blue or blackish in colour with spines all over the body. Larva Rice Hispa Rice Hispa Rice Hispa adult Top Management Strategies: Avoid over fertilizing the field. Close plant spacing results in greater leaf densities that can tolerate higher hispa numbers. Leaf tip containing blotch mines should be destroyed. Manual collection and killing of beetles – hand nets. To prevent egg laying of the pests, the shoot tips can be cut. Clipping and burying shoots in the mud can reduce grub populations by 75 - 92%. Reduviid bug eats upon the adults. Spraying of methyl parathion 0.05% or Quinalphos 0.05%. Collect beetle using hand net and destroy Destroy leaf tips containing blotch mines Reduviid bug feed on adult hispa Spray Methyl Parathion Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Rice horned caterpillar Symptom of Damage : Larva feeds on leaf blades of rice. Leaves are defoliated from the margin or tip irregularly. Mining of leaves by grubs Presence of beetles with scrapping on leaves Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Melanitis leda ismene Egg : White, round laid singly on the paddy leaves. Larva : Green with roughened skin flattened dorsally and has a dark brown head with a pair of red horn like processed and two yellow processes in the anal end. It feeds on the leaves. Pupa : Dark green chrysalis hangs from the leaf and is attached to the leaf blade by its anal extremity. Adult : The butterfly is dark brown with large wings having a few black and yellow eye-like markings one on each of the forewings and six ocellar spots on hind wings. Rice horned caterpillar Rice horned caterpillar Rice horned caterpillar adult Top Management Strategies: Expose the eggs to be picked up by birds after ploughing and trim the bunds. Dusting the crop with 5-10% methyl parathion 2% @ 25-30 kg/ha. fenitrothion (or) malathion 5% @ 20 kg/ha. Spraying nuvan 100 EC @ 200 ml/ha (or) malathion 50 EC@ 2.5 lit/ha. Bio-control agents such as Cacallus spp., Barycomus spp. and Seelio spp., which are egg parasites should be encouraged. The eggs are parasitized by trichogrammatid wasps. Chalcid wasp and two species of tachinid flies parasitize the larvae and a vespid wasp preys on the larvae. Trichogramma japonicum Flood the nursery to expose hiding larvae Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Root Grub Symptom of Damage : They feed on roots. Yellowing and gradual wilting of entire plants. Stunted plants. Root loss. Grub damage Grub damage Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Leucopholis irrorata Egg : The eggs are pearly white and elongated or ovoid in shape. Grub : The grub is creamy white and has a pair of sclerotized mandibles. Three pairs of prominent legs are visible on the thoracic area and its body is curled in a C-shaped position. Pupa : The pupa is dark brown. Adult : The adult beetle is black or dark brown in color. Its pronotum is not margined except for its lateral edges. The male has a longer antennal club than the female adult. While the female has a broader tibial spur with a rounded end, the male has a slender and pointed tibial spur. Root grub larva Root grub Root grub adult Top Management Strategies : Scoliid wasps parasitize the larvae. Carabid beetles, birds, toads, bats, and storks also eat the larvae and adults. The larvae are also infected by fungal pathogens. Carabid beetle Scoliid wasps Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Skipper Symptom of Damage : Removal of leaf tissues and veins and sometimes leaving only the midrib Rolling down of leaf tip or folding two edges of the same leaf or two adjacent leaves and tying them with silken threads to make a protective chamber. It occurs in the nursery and planted crop. Nature of Damage : The caterpillar folds the leaves and feeds from inside. It feeds on the parenchyma leaf and gets reduced to skeleton. Floating of tubular cases around the tillers Papery white leaves Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Orseolia oryzae Egg : Eggs are laid on the leaves. Larva : The caterpillar is elongate, yellowish green with four white dorsal stripes, smooth with a constructed neck and red ‘V’ mark on the head, which is distinct. Pupa : Pale green pupa has white longitudinal lines on it and is attached to the leaf blade by a silk girdle. Adult : The adult is a dark brown skipper butterfly with two white spots on the wings. Larva Adult Top Management Strategies: Cultural Methods: Flood the nursery to expose the hiding larvae to the surface and thus birds pick them up. Kerosenate the water while irrigation to suffocate and kill the larvae. Allow the ducks into the field to feed on the larvae. Allow ducks into the field Flood the nursery Chemical Methods: Drain the water and spray chlorpyriphos 20 EC 80 ml/ha during late evening. Spray Chlorpyriphos Biological Methods: The eggs of rice skippers are parasitized by small wasps. Big wasps and tachinid flies parasitize the larvae. They are preyed upon by reduviid bugs and earwigs. The orb-web spiders feed on the adults during flight. Release Trichogramma japonicum (egg parasitoid) on 30 and 37 DAT (twice) and T. chilonis on 37, 44 and 51 DAT (thrice) followed by three sprays of 65 and 72 DAT also reduce the pest. Parasites and predators usually control the population density of rice skippers in the field. Release larval parasitoids Apanteles ruficrus, Meteorus sp., Charops bicolor, C. dominans, Drino unisetosa, Pseudoperichaeta orientalis, Strobliomyia aegyptia,Pseudogonia cinerascens, Tachinia fallan, Cuphocera varia, Sturmia inconspicua,Chelonus sp., Euplectrus euplexiae, E. spodopterae. Hexamermis sp. a parasitic nematode parasitises the larva. Pupa parasitized by Netelia sp., Actia sp., Drino sp. and Isomera cinerascens. The vertebrate predators of the larvae are Corvus splendens, C. macrorhynchus, Bubalcus coromandus, Ardeela grayi, Amaurovius phoenicocurus, Acridotheres tristis. A nuclear polyhedrosis virus also infects skipper larvae. Nuclear polyhedrosis virus Trichogramma japonicum Tachinid fly parasitize the larvae Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Whorl Maggot Symptom of Damage : Maggot feeds on the tender tissue inside the whorl Yellowish white longitudinal marginal blotching with hole. Drooping of young leaves near the tip. The maggots attack the leaf blades and the initial damage is characterized by the presence of narrow stripes of whitish areas in the blade margins. White or transparent patches. Presence of feeding lesions in the lines and the infested plants become stunted. Damaged leaves easily break from the wind Yellowish white marginal blotching of leaves Presence of maggot Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Hydrellia sasakii Egg : White, cigar shaped egg laid singly on either side of the leaves. Grub : Newly hatched larva is transparent to very light cream in colour but later become yellow. The larvae move down the leaf into the whorl. Damage can be seen as pinholes in the leaves and white and yellowish lesions on the leaf edge. Pupa : Pupation takes place in between the leaf sheath where the pupa is loosely attached the stem. The puparium is light to dark brown ovoid and sub-cylindrical in shape. Adult : Adult dark grey flies, 1.8-2.3 mm in size. Egg Larva Whorl maggot Whorl maggot adult Top Management Strategies : ETL : 25% damaged leaves. Remove the alternate hosts and adjust the time of planting (early). Optimum recommendation of potash fertilizer. Spray fenthion 100 EC 500 ml (or) quinalphos 25 EC each at 1000 ml/ ha (or) application of Thimet 5 kgs/acre. The eggs are parasitized by Opius sp., Tetrastichus sp., and Trichogramma sp., and preyed upon by Dolichopus sp., Medetera sp., and Syntormon sp. The adults are hosts to spiders Lycosa pseudoannulata, Neoscona theisi, Ochthera brevitibialis, and Oxyopes javanus. Small wasps parasitized the eggs and the maggots. Dolicopodid flies prey on the eggs and ephydrid flies and spiders feed on the adults. Removal of alternate hosts Spray fenthion Wasps parasitize maggots Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Symptom of Damage Identification of pest Management Strategies Yellow hairy caterpillar Symptom of Damage : Caterpillar causes defoliation. Larva feeds on leaf blades of rice. Leaves are defoliated from the margin or tip irregularly. Mining of leaves by grubs Presence of beetles with scrapping on leaves Top Identification of pest : Scientific Name - Psalis Pennatula Egg : Laid in batches on the leaves covered with yellow hairs. Larva : The Caterpillar is yellow with red stripes and an orange head. Tuft of hairs are found all over, of which two in the anterior region and one in the posterior region are prominent. Pupa : Pupation is in yellowish cocoon of hairs on the leaves. Adult : Moth is light yellow with bipectinate antenna. Larva Adult Top Management Strategies: The eggs are parasitized by trichogrammatid wasps. Chalcid wasp and two species of tachinid flies parasitize the larvae and a vespid wasp preys on the larvae. Expose the eggs to be picked up by birds after ploughing and trim the bunds. Meadow grasshoppers, ants, birds and toads feed on the caterpillar. Meadow grasshoppers Trichogrammatid wasps Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Crop Protection HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Pest Disease Non - Insect Pest Crop Protection Experts assessment reveal that around 22 per cent of yield losses in Rice can be attributed to insect pests. Hence, there is need to reduce if not eliminate these losses by protecting the crops from different pests through appropriate techniques. At present day the role of crop protection in agriculture is of great importance and a challenging process than before, as the so called resistant species should be brought under check. All other management practices of crop husbandry will be futile if the crop is not protected against the ravages of pests. In absence of crop protection the yields may be drastically declined. The entire effort of growing a crop will be defeated in absence of crop protection resulting in financial loss to the grower. So the crop protection against various pests is a must in agriculture. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Cultivation Practices HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Main Field Preparation Crop stand Establishment Water Management Weed Management Cropping System Cultivation Practices Rice cultivation is well-suited to countries and regions with low labor costs and high rainfall, as it is labor-intensive to cultivate and requires ample water. The traditional method for cultivating rice is flooding the fields while, or after, setting the young seedlings. This simple method requires sound planning and servicing of the water damming and channeling, but reduces the growth of less robust weed and pest plants that have no submerged growth state. While flooding is not mandatory for the cultivation of rice, all other methods of irrigation require higher effort in weed and pest control during growth periods and a different approach for fertilizing the soil. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Cultivation Practices >> Main field Preparation HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Sub Topics Soil conditions Required Tillage practices Main field preparation in Tamil Nadu Main field preparation in Kerala Main field preparation in Karnataka Laser Levelling Main Field Preparation Soil Condition Required Soils with good water retention capacity with high amount of clay and organic matter are ideal for rice cultivation. Clay or clay loams are most suited for rice cultivation. Such soils are capable of holding water for long and sustain crop. Rice being a semi-aquatic crop, grows best under sub-merge conditions. Rice is cultivated in almost all types of soils with varying productivity. The major soil groups where rice is grown are riverine alluvium, red-yellow, red loamy, hill and sub-montane, Terai, laterite, costal alluvium, red sandy, mixed red, black, medium and shallow black soils. It grows well in soils having a pH range between 5.5 and 6.5. Special technologies for problem soils : For fluffy paddy soils: compact the soil by passing 400kg stone roller or oil-drum with stones inside, eight times at proper moisture level (moisture level at friable condition of soil which is approximately 13 to18%) once in three years to prevent the sinking of draught animals and workers during puddling. For sodic soils: For sodic soils with pH values of more than 8.5, plough at optimum moisture regime, apply 50% of total gypsum requirement uniformly, impound water, provide drainage for leaching out soluble salts and apply green leaf manure at 5 t/ha, 10 to 15 days before transplanting. Mix 37.5kg of Zinc sulphate per ha with sand to make a total quantity of 75kg and spread the mixture uniformly on the leveled field. Do not incorporate the mixture in the soil. Rice under sodic soil responds well to these practices. For saline soils: For saline soils with EC values of more than 4 dS/m, provide lateraland main drainage channels (60cm deep and 45cm wide), apply green leaf manure at 5 t/ha at 10 to 15 days before transplanting and 25% extra dose of nitrogen in addition to recommended P and K and ZnSo4 at 37.5 kg/ha at planting For acid soils: For acid soils apply lime based on the soil analysis for obtaining normal rice yields. Lime is applied @ 2.5t/ha before last ploughing. Apply lime at this rate to each crop upto the 5th crop. Top Tillage Practices Primary tillage Ploughing Ploughing is the primary tillage operations, which is performed to cut, break and invert the soil partially or completely suitable for sowing seeds. Special technologies for problem soils To obtain a deep seed bed of good texture. To increase the water holding capacity of the soil. To improve soil aeration. To destroy weeds, insects and pests. To add fertility to the soil by covering vegetation. Secondary tillage Harrowing Harrowing is a secondary tillage operation which is done to a shallow depth for smoothening and pulverizing the soil as well as to cut the weeds and to mix the materials with the soil. Purpose of harrowing To pulverize the soil of the seedbeds in the field. To destroy grasses and seeds in the field. To cut crop residues and mix them with top soil of the field. To break the big clods and to make the field surface uniform and levelled. Harrowing is carried out when the moisture content of the clods are reduced. Puddling Puddling is churning the soil with water. It is done in paddy fields with standing water of 5-10 cm depth after initial ploughing with country plough. It breaks up the clods and churns the soil. Purpose of puddling To reduce leaching of water or decrease percolation of water, To kill the weeds by decomposition. To facilitate transplantation of paddy seedlings by making the soil softer. To decrease water and nutrient losses by reduced hydraulic conductivity. Levelling Land levelling is expected to bring permanent improvement in the value of land. Levelling work is carried out to modify the existing contours of land for efficient agricultural production system Purpose of Levelling Efficient application of irrigation water and increased conservation of rain water. Improve surface drainage and minimize soil erosion Provision of an adequate field size and even topography for efficient mechanisation. Perfect land leveling for efficient weed and water management. Improves better crop stands and crop establishment Top Main Field Preparation in Tamil Nadu Transplanted Rice Plough the land during summer to economize the water requirement for initial preparation of land. Field is ploughed once or twice to obtain a good tilth. Flood the field 1 or 2 days before ploughing and allow water to soak in. Keep the surface of the field covered with water. Keep water to a depth of 2.5cm at the time of puddling. Apply 12.5 t of FYM or compost or green leaf manure @ 6.25 t/ha. If green manure is raised @ 20 kg/ha in situ, incorporate it to adepth of 15 cm using a green manure trampler or tractor. Apply 22 kg urea/ha at the time of first puddling while incorporating the stubbles of previous crop to compensate immobilization of N by the stubbles. This may be done at least 10 days prior to planting of subsequent crop. For SRI, 4-5 ploughing is required for preparing the land & in the last ploughing, we need to ensure it is upto a depth of 6 inches. Perfect levelling is a pre requisite for the water management in SRI. Direct Seeded Rice Wet seeded rice On receipt of showers during the month of May-July repeated ploughing should be carried out so as to conserve the moisture, destroy the weeds and break the clods. After inundation puddling is to be done as per transplanting. More care should be taken to level the field to zero level. Stagnation of water in patches during germination and early establishment of the crop leads to uneven crop stand. Land leveling helps in efficient weed and water management practices. Provision of shallow trenches (15cm width) at an interval of 3m all along the field will facilitate the draining of excess water at the early growth stage. Dry seeded rice Dry plough to get fine tilth taking advantage of rains and soil moisture availability. Apply gypsum @ 1t/ha basally where soil crusting and soil hardening problem exist. Perfect land leveling for efficient weed and water management practices. Provision of shallow trenches (15cm width) at an interval of 3m all along the field will facilitate the draining of excess water at the early growth stage. Top Main Field Preparation in Kerala General Plough the field thoroughly to incorporate the weeds and straw into the soil. Ensure a smooth, level field for transplanting the seedlings. Apply organic manure in the form of farmyard manure or compost or green leaf @ of 5t/ha and incorporate into the soil while ploughing. The entire quantity of phosphatic fertilizers may be applied along with the organic manures. Kuttanad In Kuttanad, land lies below the sea level, the paddy fields situated along the waterways need to be protected by strong and carefully designed ring bunds. Construction of outer walls called ring bunds (puravarambu) around the particular portion of a shallow water body and draining the enclosed area by bailing water out of that enclosed portion at the beginning of every crop season. Plough the field thoroughly to incorporate the weeds in the field. Ensure a smooth and levelled field. Maintain a thin film of water to facilitate sowing so that the germinated seeds do not get covered with clayey soil, which affects seedling establishment. Kole For the first crop in Kole, after the cessation of the heavy monsoon, dewatering is effected by petti and para or centrifugal pump and rarely by chakkram. Land is ploughed thoroughly and transplanting is done. For the second crop, land is prepared thoroughly and direct sowing of sprouted seeds or transplanting is done. Onattukara With the onset of pre-monsoon showers, land is ploughed thoroughly. Dibbling of unsprouted seeds behind the country plough is the common practice. Pokkali The rice is cultivated from June to early November when the salinity level of the water in the fields is low. From mid-November to mid-April, when the salinity is high, prawn farming takes over after the rice harvest, feed on the leftovers of the harvested crop. By April, the bunds are being strengthened, fields are drained during low tide and sluices repaired for regulating water level. No other fertilizer or manure need in rice crop because of nutrients drawn from the prawns’ excrement and other remnants. Harvesting takes place by end-October. Only the panicles are cut and the rest of the stalks are left to decay in the water, which in time become feed for the prawns that start arriving in November–December. Top Main Field Preparation in Karnataka The main field is to be dry ploughed for twice three weeks before planting. Later, field may be ploughed with 5-10 cm of standing water 2-3 times. This process is known as puddling Incorporate 5-7 tonne of FYM or compost or 1 tonne of poultry manure per hectare or incorporate 10 tonne of green leaf manure three weeks before transplanting. The fertilizers recommended for basal application have to be applied before the last puddling and incorporated. After fertilization avoid moving of water from one field to another. Later, proper levelling has to be made before transplanting the seedlings. Dig the corners of field which are not covered by ploughing. Cut off 2.5 cm of soil from the top and sides of the bunds to remove the weeds along with their seeds and to destroy the eggs of insect pests by using spade. If the bunds are very broad, trim them to a width of 15 cm and height of 15 cm so that rats do not harbor in the bunds. If rat burrows are noticed, insert pellets of 0.5 g or 0.6 g aluminium phosphide and plug the exit holes. Apply mud paste to the side and top of the bund to a thickness of 2.5 cm with a spade and plaster it using the flat surface of the spade. Plastering the bunds helps in checking weed growth and prevents harboring of insect pests. Top Laser Levelling LASER GUIDED LAND LEVELING : Laser land leveling is leveling the field within certain degree of desired slope using a guided laser beam throughout the field. Unevenness of the soil surface has a significant impact on the germination, stand and yield of crops. Farmers also recognize this and therefore devote considerable time resources in leveling their fields properly. However, traditional methods of leveling land are cumbersome, time consuming as well as expensive. WHY LASER LEVELING ?: Land looks leveled but even then wide topographic variation exists. Wide variability in crop yields at field/ village/ block/ district/ regional level. For better distribution of water. For water savings. For improvement in nutrient use efficiencies. Option for Precision Farming Higher crop productivity OBJECTIVES OF LAND LEVELING : Effective land leveling is meant to optimize water use efficiency, improve crop establishment, reduce the irrigation time and effort required to manage crop. Laser leveled land: Saves 25-30% of water Improves crop establishment and improves yield. Reduces weed problems Improves uniformity of crop maturity Decreases the time to complete tasks Reduces the amount of water required for land preparation. ECONOMICS : The initial cost of laser land leveling is high but if the appropriate ploughing techniques are used, re-levelling the whole field should not be necessary for at least eight to ten years. Measurements taken in fields in the second and third year after leveling have shown very little variation in surface topography. Other benefits are: Being able to direct seed. Plough the field on time. Harvest evenly ripened crop. Reduced weeding cost. EQUIPMENT DETAILS : Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Cultivation Practices >> Crop Stand Establishment HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Sub Topics Principles of Crop Establishment System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Transplanting Direct wet seeding Direct dry seeding Seedling Throwing Method Crop Stand Establishment Principles of Crop Establishment General goal: Establish a uniform plant stand. For maximum yield, plant stand must be uniform across the field. Transplanting gives a good stand establishment Direct seeding, especially wet direct seeding, may be problematic. If direct seed then i. Need more uniform land leveling and better water management ii. Seed planted too deep results in poor emergence and weak plants System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Seed Rate 7-8 kg/ha for transplanting single seedling per hill. 12-15 kg/ha for transplanting two seedlings per hill wherever difficulty in establishment of rice is seen. 15 days old seedlings are transplanted with 1-2 seedlings per hill. Transplant within 30 minutes of pulling out of seedlings. A commonly practiced methods are Using rope with marking Using aluminium pipes with markings. Using bamboo plank with pegs as markings Using wooden marker Using roller markers Fill up the gaps between 7th and 10th DAT. There may be difficulty in crop establishment in areas with heavy downpour (North East Monsoon periods of Tamil Nadu). Transplanting : Transplanting consists of preparing seedlings in nursery and then planting these seedlings in the prepared main field. Transplanting ensures a uniform plant stand and gives the rice crop a head start over emerging weeds. Seedling Management Optimum age of seedlings for quick establishment Optimum age of the seedlings for transplanting is 18-22 days for short duration, 25-30 days for medium duration and 35-40 days for long duration varieties. Pulling out the seedlings Pull out the seedlings at the appropriate time (4th leaf stage). These seedlings can produce more tillers, provided enough care is given during the establishment phase by providing thin film of water and perfect levelled of main field. Transplanting after 5th leaf and higher order leaf numbers will affect the performance of the crop and grain yield. They are called as ‘aged seedlings’. Management of Aged seedlings Follow the spacing recommended to medium and low fertility soil Avoid cluster planting of aged seedlings, which are hindering the formation of new tillers. To encourage the tiller production, enhance the basal N application by 50% from the recommended dose. Root dipping Prepare the slurry with 5 packets (1000 g)/ha of Azospirillum and 5 packets (1000g/ha) of Phosphobacteria or 10 packets of (2000g/ha) of Azophos inoculant in 40 lit. of water and dip the root portion of the seedlings for 15 - 30 minutes in bacterial suspension and then transplant. Plant Density and Spacing In Tamil Nadu Varietal duration Low and Medium Fertility (plant/ha) Spacing (cm) High Fertility Plants / ha Spacing (cm) Short 8 lakhs 12.5 x 10 5.0 lakhs 20x10 Medium 5.0 lakhs 20x10 3.3 lakhs 20x15 Long 3.3 lakhs 20x15 2.5 lakhs 20x20 In Kerala Season Duration Spacing No.of hills/m2 First crop Medium Short 20 cm x 15 cm 15 cm x 10 cm 33 67 Second crop Medium Short 20 cm x 10 cm 15 cm x 10 cm 50 67 Third crop Medium Short 20 cm x 10 cm 15 cm x 10 cm 50 67 Optimum age of seedlings: Optimum age of the seedlings for transplanting is 18 days for short duration, 20-25 days for medium duration and 30 days for long duration varieties. In Karnataka Spacing: 20x10cm (50 hills/ sq.meter) 2-3 seedlings per hill Short duration variety: 15x10cm (67 hills/ sq. meter) In Tungabhadra command area, for transplanting of long duration varieties such as sona masuri under delayed condition (August 15-30th) select the seedlings which are 45 days old and transplant about 3 to 4 seedlings per hill to get higher yield. Planting Seedling in the main field Number of seedlings /hill 2 to 4 seedlings / hill Saline soil : 4 to 6 seedling / hill Depth of Planting Clay soil : 5 to 6 cm Shallow soil : 2.5 to 3.0 cm Shallow planting (3 cm) ensures quick establishment and more tillers. Deeper planting (> 5cm) leads to delayed establishment and reduced tillers. Transplanting shock: It occurs when the seedlings are pulled out from the nursery and planted in the new environment. For recovery from shock, it will take minimum of 5 to 7 days under tropics. Shallow planting reduces the period. Mild temperature after transplanting also reduces the period. Hot and very cold weather delays recovery. Best temperature: <30° C maximum and > 20° C minimum. Gap filling Fill the gaps, if any within 7 - 10 days after transplanting. Top Transplanting Methods Types : Manual transplanting Machine transplanting Manual transplanting Manual transplanting is most suited for labour-surplus areas and for small rice fields. Manual transplanting can be done in fields with less than optimal levelling and with varying water levels. How to Transplant Rice Manually Pull out the seedlings at an average of 15 to 30 days after seeding (DAS) from nurseries and transport them to the main field. In a modified mat nursery, seedlings are ready for transplanting at 15-20 DAS and seedling mats are transported to main field. Transplant the seedlings soon after pulling from the nursery in puddled, leveled field (any delay will lead to slow revival and even death of some seedlings). Transplant 2-3 seedlings per hill at shallow depth at optimum spacing (20 cm x 20 cm or 22.5 cm x 22.5 cm). Handle seedlings carefully to ensure their fast revival and rapid growth after transplanting. Limitations : Transplanting is tedious and time-consuming (up to 30 person-days ha-1). Difficult to get enough labour at peak periods to plant on time. Low plant density with contract transplanting on area basis lowers yields. Risk, in rainfed areas, that seedlings (especially of modern varieties) may get too old before rain starts. Machine transplanting Machine transplanting involves planting young rice seedlings into puddled soil by machine. How to Transplant Rice by Machine? Raise seedlings in special mat nurseries or in seedling trays. Use required quantity of good seed per 100 m2 of nursery for each ha. Seedlings will be ready for transplanting in 12-15 days after seeding (DAS). Ensure that fields are well puddled and leveled. Drain fields and allow mud to settle for 1-2 days after the final puddling. The subsurface soil layers need to be hard enough to support the transplanting machine. The soil is ready when a small “V” mark made in the puddled soil with a stick holds its shape. At this moisture level, the soil can hold the seedlings upright. Soil should not be so dry that it sticks to and interferes with planting parts or wheels of the transplanter. Load the seedling mats on the machine and transplant the seedlings at the selected machine setting. Advantages Machine transplanting requires considerably less time and labour than manual transplanting (1-2 ha/person/day versus 0.07 ha/person/day). Fast and efficient (1-2 ha/day), and ensures timely planting. Reduces stress, drudgery and health risks. Ensures uniform spacing and plant density. Seedlings recover fast, tiller vigorously, and mature uniformly. Limitations Seedlings must be planted while still young, and so mechanical transplanting is best suited for irrigated areas only. Special nursery management is needed (mat nursery or seedling trays). Good land preparation, leveling and water management are required. Top Direct Wet Seeding Seed rate – 60 kg/ha. Pre germinate the seeds as for wet nursery. Sow the seeds by drum seeder or broadcast uniformly with thin jfilm of water. Thinning and gap filling should be done 14-21 days after sowing. Dual cropping of rice-green manure is economic for nutrient budget and efficient for grain production. For this method use ‘TNAU Rice-Green manure seeder’. If dual cropped with green manure, incorporate the green manure when grown to 40cm height or at 30 days after sowing, whichever is earlier, using Cono-weeder. Green manure incorporated fields may be operated again with rotary weeder a week later in order to aerate the soil and to exploit organic acids formed if any. Top Direct Dry Seeding In Tamil Nadu : Seed rate: 75 kg/ha dry seed for any recommended variety. Seed hardening with 1% KCl for 16 hours (seed and KCl solution 1:1) and shade dried to bring to storable moisture. This will enable the crop to withstand early moisture stress. On the day of sowing, treat the hardened seeds first with Pseudomonas fluroscens 10g/kg of seed and then with Azophos 2000 g or Azospirillum and Phosphobacteria @ 600 g each per ha seed, whichever is available. Drill sow with 20 cm inter row spacing using seed drill. In Kerala : Seed rate Broadcasting 80-100 kg/ha Dibbling 80-90 kg/ha [Note: The above seed rates are specified for farmers' field on the basis of minimum germination of 80%. In pokkali cultivation, for Vyttila varieties, 100 kg/ha may be sown on the beds or mounds formed in the field. In Karnataka : Seed rate – 100 kg/ha Possible to obtain higher yields with direct sowing of rice. Direct sowing of rice is preferred to transplanting rice in areas with low water availability. Direct seeding is a viable option in areas with shortage of water and labour. Large scale adoption of direct sowing is possible. Sowing of Paddy using drum seeder : Followed under late sown conditions especially in the month of July when rainfall is sufficient enough to make puddling. Use pre-germinated seeds for sowing Seed rate - 40 kg/ha Top Seedling Throwing Method 20 days old seedlings of short duration rice varieties. Requirement of seedlings will be approximately 20% more than the line planting or equal to random planting. The seedlings are thrown into the puddled leveled field by labour without using force. Suitable for all seasons except Thaladi or heavy rain season. 50% labour shaving as compared to line planting and 35% to random planting. Up to 7-10 days of seedling throwing care should be taken to maintain thin film of water (similar to wet seeded rice). Other cultural operations are same as transplanted rice. Grain yield will be equal to line planted crop and 10-12% higher than random planted crop. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Cultivation Practices >> Water Management HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Sub Topics Water requirement Water management for different ecosystem Critical stages of irrigation Water management methods Components of Water losses from rice field Water stress Water Management Water Requirement Crop water requirement is the water required by the plants for its survival, growth, development and to produce economic parts. This requirement is applied either naturally by precipitation or artificially by irrigation. Average Water requirement – 1100 mm Average Water requirement (SRI) – 700 mm The daily consumptive use of rice varies from 6-10 mm and total water is ranges from 1100 to 1250 mm depending upon the agro climatic situation, duration of variety and characteristics of the soils. Stage-wise water requirement for paddy Stages of growth Water requirement (mm) Precentage of total water requirement Nursery 40 3.22 Main field preparation 200 16.12 Planting to panicle initiation 458 37.00 Panicle initiation to flowering 417 33.66 Flowering to maturity 125 10.00 Operation wise water requirement of paddy : Operation Water requirement (mm) Nursery 40 Land preparation 200 Field irrigation 1000 Total 1240 Scheduling of irrigation for paddy Short duration variety Medium duration variety Long duration variety Days No. of irrigation Water level (cm) Days No. of irrigation Water level (cm) Days No. of irrigation Water level (cm) 1-25 5-7 2-3 1-30 5-7 2-3 1-35 6-8 2-3 25 - Thin film of water 30 - Thin film of water 35 - Thin film of water 28 - Life irrigation 33 - Life irrigation 38 - Life irrigation 29-50 6 2-5 34-65 6-8 2-5 39-90 or 95 12-15 2-5 51-70 5-6 2-5 66-95 8-10 2-5 96-125 7-9 2-5 71-105 5-6 2-5 96-125 6-8 2-5 126-150 5-6 2-5 Top Water Management for Different Ecosystem System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Irrigation only to moist the soil in the early period of 10 days Restoring irrigation to a maximum depth of 2.5cm after development of hairline cracks in the soil until panicle initiation Increasing irrigation depth to 5.0 cm after PI one day after disappearance of ponded water. Transplanted lowland rice Puddling and leveling minimizes the water requirement Plough with tractor drawn cage wheel to reduce percolation losses and to save water requirement up to 20%. Maintain 2.5 cm water over the puddle and allow the green manure to decompose for a minimum of 7 days in the case of less fibrous plants like sun hemp and 15 days for more fibrous green manure plants like Kolinchi (Tephrosia purpurea). At the time of transplanting, a shallow depth of 2 cm of water is adequate since high depth of water will lead to deep planting resulting in reduction of tillering. Maintain 2 cm of water up to seven days of transplanting. After the establishment stage, cyclic submergence of water is the best practice for rice crop. This cyclic 5 cm submergence has to be continued throughout the crop period. Moisture stress due to inadequate water at rooting and tillering stage causes poor root growth leading to reduction in tillering, poor stand and low yield. Wet Seeded Puddled Lowland Rice During first one week just wet the soil by thin film of water. Depth of irrigation may be increased to 2.5cm progressively along the crop age. Provide adequate drainage facilities to drain excess water or strictly follow irrigation schedule of one day after disappearance of ponded water. Last irrigation may be 15 days ahead of harvest. Dry Seeded Un-Puddled Rice As that of irrigated rice, canal water is used for irrigation For drill sown rice care should be taken to drain out excess rain water during first 10-15 DAS and the water level in the field should not be more than 2.5cm height during tillering stage. In drill sown rice carry out hodta operation (Planking) in standing water at 40 DAS, and impound sufficient rain water through the crop growth period. Semi-dry rice The crop is irrigated from 30-35 days onwards, utilizing water impounded in the tanks. Irrigation may be to a depth of 2.5 -5.0cm only. Follow the schedule of one day after disappearance of ponded water in order to save water and to bring additional area under this type of rice cultivation. Precautions for irrigation (common) The field plot can be 25 to 50 cents depending on the source of irrigation. Field to field irrigation should be avoided. Small bund may be formed parallel to the main bund of the field at a distance of 30 to 45cm within the field to avoid leakages of water through main bund crevices. To minimize percolation loss, the depth of stagnated water should be 5cm or less. In water logged condition, form open drains, about 60cm in depth and 45cm width across the field. Care should be taken not to allow development of cracks. In double cropped wetland of command area, raise groundnut / pulse in the place of Kuruvai rice if water is a constraint. Top Critical Stages of Irrigation The stage at which the water stress causes severe yield reduction is also known as critical stage of water requirement. It is also known as moisture sensitive period. Critical stages of water requirement in rice are Active tillering Panicle initiation Booting Heading and Flowering. During theses stages, the irrigation interval should not exceed the stipulated time so as to cause the depletion of moisture below the saturation level. Top Water Management Methods Continuous Submergence Continuous land submergence for rice is, usually, practiced due to the associated major advantages of increase in availability of nutrients and less weed management problems. Shallow submergence of water up to 5 cm depth throughout the crop period is optimum for high yield. Depth of submergence at different stages Stages of crop growth Depth of submergence (cm) At transplanting 2 After transplanting for 3 days 5 Three days after transplanting upto maximum tillering 2 At maximum tillering (in fertile fields only) Drain water for three days Maximum tillering to panicle initiation 2 Panicle initiation to 21 days after flowering 5 Twenty one days after flowering Withhold irrigation Intermittent Submergence Continuous land submergence requires huge quantity of water for rice production, so to minimize the irrigation requirement, the approach of intermittent submergence has been practiced. Under high humidity and low evaporative demand, the practice of intermittent submergence i.e submergence during the critical stages of crop and maintenance of saturation or drying up to hair cracking stage during the rest of the crop stages. Intermittent period varied from one to nine days depending on rainfall pattern, depth of water table and soil texture. This practice saves about 30% water. Continuous Flowing Irrigation Standing water in lowland rice minimize the irrigation needs leading to high water use efficiency compared with continuous flowing irrigation water from field to field. Flowing water from field to field increases grain yield of rice by preventing accumulation of harmful salts in the soil. However, nitrogen losses will be higher with continuous flowing irrigation water. Flowing irrigation water is ideal for problem soils. Rotational Irrigation Required quantity of irrigation water is applied at regular intervals, such that there may not be any standing water in field between two irrigations. Irrigation interval is adjusted in such a way that the crop will not experience water deficits at any period. It is usually followed at time of deficit water supplies. Major advantage of rotational irrigation is possibly the more effective use of rainfall. Shallow submergence is advantageous during critical period of the crop Top Components of Water Losses from Rice Field The principal losses of water from lowland rice fields can be grouped into two: vapour losses and losses in liquid form. Vapour losses are through transpiration from leaf surface and evaporation at water surface collectively referred to as evapotranspiration. The two types of liquid losses are deep percolation plus seepage and runoff of excess water over the field levees Evapotranspiration : Evaporation is highest at early growth stages, when the leaf area index (LAI) is small and accounts for most of the evapotranspiration (ET) losses. In most of the tropics, the ET requirements during wet season, on an average, is 4-5 mm day -1. During the dry season, it is 8-10 mm day-1. Percolation and seepage: Percolation occurs in vertical direction and seepage by horizontal movement through levees. Percolation is largely affected by topography, soil characteristics and depth of water table. In a heavy soil with water table close to the soil surface, percolation loss could be around 1.0 mm day-1 as against as high as 10.0 cm day-1 in light soils. Seepage, normally, flows into soil surface or streams, rivers or drains, while percolation, usually, contribute to water table. Surface runoff It represents a major loss of water in lowland rice production, especially with flowing irrigation water from field to field. When the source of irrigation water is wells, there may not be any surface runoff losses. Surface runoff losses are most severe in wet season especially at times of high intensity rains. Tips to reduce water losses Seepage and percolation reduced to considerable extent by intensive land puddling and perfect leveling Application of FYM or compost or green manures reduce evaporation, percolation and seepage Lining of canals and irrigation channels can be formed to check the seepage. Evaporation losses can be minimized by 50% when the soil is kept at saturation under levelled field conditions Addition of clay or tank silt (to light textured soils only) @ 150m3/ha reduce the percolation loss by 20 -25%. To reduce percolation loss: Growing rice in large blocks rather than in isolated small holdings. Subsoil compaction Rainwater harvesting and levees management can substantially minimize the surface runoff during wet season. Top Water Stress Moisture stress means the action of excess or deficit of water on plants. However, moisture stress is generally used to imply water deficits. Water deficits and rice performance Water deficit occur in the plant whenever transpiration exceeds uptake. The effect of water deficits on growth and yield of rice depend on the stage of crop growth at which the water deficits occur. Vegetative growth stage Immediately after transplanting, adequate land submergence (5 cm) is necessary to prevent damage to establishing seedlings from high winds and for root development. Following the early rooting stage, a shallow depth of land submergence (2 cm) facilitates tiller production and firm root anchorage in the soil. Moisture stress occur at active tillering phase will reduce the yield by 30%. Reproductive stage Rice crop is most sensitive to water deficit from panicle primordial development to heading. Three days of moisture stress at 11 days and at three days before heading results in maximum yield loss due to high percentage of sterility. Moisture stress occur at reproductive phase will reduce the yield by 50 - 60%. Maturity stage This stage (milk to grain maturity) is least sensitive to soil moisture stress. After yellowish ripening stage, there is no necessity for standing water. Water may be drained from the field about 7-10 days before harvest to facilitate harvesting. Water stress management Spray Cycocel @ 1000ppm (1ml of commercial product in one litre of water) under water deficit situations to mitigate ill effects of moisture stress. Split application of potassium 50% at basal and 25% each at tillering and panicle initiation stage along with Azospirillum (seed inoculation, seedling dipping or soil application) alleviates harmful effects of the soil moisture stress. Seed hardening with 1% KCl for 16 hours (seed and KCl solution 1:1) and shade dried to bring to storable moisture. This will enable the crop to withstand early moisture stress. Foliar spray of kaolin 3% or KCl 1% to overcome moisture stress at different physiological stages of rice. Excess water and crop performance Response of rice crop to excess water conditions is different for different growth stages, varieties and seasons. Turbid water greatly damages the crop than clear water. Seedling establishment to maximum tillering stage is least sensitive. Excess water during the vegetative phase hinders tillering. Flowering to maturity is more sensitive to excess water than the stage from maximum tillering to flowering. Fields that are kept flooded beyond the dough stage will mature in a non-homogenous way and harvest will be delayed. Management of Excess Water Levelling of land removes excess water by runoff. Drainage removes excess water from the root zone that is harmful for plant growth. The best time for drainage in ill drained soils is at late tillering stage. Controlled irrigation reduces excess use of water in water-logged area. Flood control measures: Construction of bunds may check water flow from the rivers to the cultivable lands. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Cultivation Practices HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Sub Topics Effects of weeds on paddy cultivation Weed flora in rice field Critical Period of Weed Competition Weed Management methods Integrated Weed Management (IWM) Special Practices for Kerala Weed Management Effects of Weeds on Paddy Cultivation Weeds are unwanted and undesirable plants which interfere with the utilization of land and water resources and thus adversely affect paddy yield. They can also be referred as plants out of place. Weeds are an important factor in the management of all land and water resources, but its effect is greatest on paddy cultivation. Weeds intensify the pest and disease problem by serving as alternate host Reduce the efficiency of harvesting Reduce the land value Problems of water contamination Reduce the yield and quality of paddy by competing for nutrients, water and sunlight. In Transplanted rice : 10-15% reduction in yield In Upland direct seeded rice : 35-45% reduction in yield In Direct seeded on puddle land : 20-25% reduction in yield Weed Flora in Rice Field Grasses Echinocloa crusgalli ssp. Hispidula (Barn yard grass) Echinocloa colonum L. Link ( Jungle rice) Panicum repense L (Torpedo grass) Paspalum conjugatum Berg ( Hilo grass) Digitaria sanguinalis L. scop (Large crab grass) Eleucine indica L. Gaertn (Goose grass) Dactyloctenium aegyptium L. Beauv. (Crowfoot grass) Imperata cylindrica L. Beauv. (Cogon grass) Cynodon dactylon L. (Bermuda grass) Oryza rufipogon (brown beard rice) Saccolepis interrupta (polla) Isachne miliacea (chovverippullu, naringa) Echinochloa stagnina (Hippo grass) Sedges Cyperus difformis L (Common sedge) Cyperus iria L. (Umbrella sedge) Fimbristylis milacea L.Vahl (Poonkorai) Scirpus maritimus L. ( Bull rush) Cyperus rotandus L. (Purple nut sedge) Broad leaved weeds Monochoria vaginalis (Oval-leafed pondweed) Ludwigia parviflora L. Roxb Marselia quadrifolia L. ( Marsilea) Amaranthus spinosus L. Spiny amaranth Ageratum conyzoides L. Goat weed Celosia argentia L. ( Cox comb) Commelina benghalensis L. Day flower Eclipta alba (False Daisy) Portulaca oleracia L.Common purslane Trianthema portulacastrum L ( Horse purslane) Ludwigia perennis (neergrampu) Limnocharis flava (nagappola) Ammania baccifera (nellicheera) Ferns Salvinia molesta (African payal) Marsilea quadrifolia (naalilakodian) Azolla pinnata (azola) Algae Chara spp. (chandi) Spirogyra spp. (payal) Top Critical Period of Weed Competition The critical period of weed competition is the shortest time span during the crop growth when weeding results in highest economic returns. The crop yield level obtained by weeding during this period is almost similar to that obtained by the full seasons weed free conditions. The critical period of weed competition is approximately 1/3rd of the duration of the crop. Crops Critical period (days after sowing) Rice (Transplanted) 15- 45 Upland rice Entire period Top Weed Management Methods Weed control and weed management are the two terms used in weed science. Weed control is the process of limiting infestation of the weed plant so that crops can be grown profitably. Weed management includes prevention, eradication and control by regulated use, restricting invasion, suppression of growth, prevention of seed production and complete destruction. Preventive methods Use of weed free seeds. Use of weed free seed bed. Use clean tools and machinery. Clean irrigation canals and bunds Prevent entry of water-carried vegetative propagules of weeds that are perennial. Eradication methods Eradication can be done by Destroying the species at the initial stage of introduction. Degenerating the buried dormant but viable seeds by flooding Control methods Cultural methods Preparatory cultivation - Incorporates weeds into soil, often to a depth of 10 to 15 cm to destroy the existing weed growth. Flooding and intensive puddling is an added advantage in lowland rice weed management. Cultural practices like dual cropping of rice-azolla and rice-green manure reduces the weed infestation to a greater extent. Summer ploughing and cultivation of irrigated dry crops during post-rainy periods reduces the weed infestation. Soil compaction to a bulk density around 1.8 g cc-1 was very effective for minimizing weed infestation in direct seeded lowland rice. Planting method - transplanting is primarily done for good weed control. Select cultivars which are having greater seedling vigor, leaf area development, early height growth rates, and tillering ability. Adopt greater plant densities to allow the crop canopy to close sooner, reducing weed germination and growth. Top Manual weed control Weeds are removed and collected from crop fields by hand. The collected weeds are piled on bunds or in case of certain weeds, taken home to feed animals. Manual weeding is the most widely used method of weed control in rice which is, however, difficult, time consuming and often costly. Transplanted rice Pulling by hand or using tools like hoe, spade or sickle. Take up one or two hand weeding between 15-40 days after transplanting SRI Manual hand weeding to remove left out weeds after cono weeding Rainfed rice First weeding can be done between 15 and 21 days after germination. Second weeding may be done 30 - 45 days after first weeding Top Mechanical weed control Mechanical control consists of methods that kill or suppress weeds through physical disruption. Such methods include pulling, digging, disking, ploughing and mowing. Transplanted rice Use of rotary weeder four times from 15 DAT at 10 days interval. It saves labour for weeding, aerates the soil and root zone, prolongs the root activity, and improves the grain filling though efficient translocation and ultimately the grain yield. Upland dry seeded rice Repeated intercultivation by passing hoe or small blade harrow 2-3 times between 20-45 days after sowing. SRI Using rotary weeder / Cono weeder Moving the weeder with forward and backward motion to bury the weeds and as well to aerate the soil at 7-10 days interval from 10-15 days after planting on either direction of the rows and column. Manual weeding is also essential to remove the weeds closer to rice root zone Top Chemical weed control Using chemicals, generally referred as herbicides, for the control of weeds is called chemical weed control. Herbicide application can provide the most effective and time-efficient method of managing weeds. Tamil Nadu and Kerala Transplanted rice: Pre-emergence herbicides Use Butachlor 1.25 kg/ha or Anilophos 0.4 kg/ha, Thiobencarb 50 % EC @ 2 kg/ha (1 kg ai/ha), pendimethalin 30 % EC @ 4.5 kg/ha (1.5 kg ai /ha), as pre-emergence application. Alternatively, pre-emergence application of herbicide mixture viz., Butachlor 0.6 kg + 2, 4 DEE 0.75 kg/ha, or Anilophos + 2,4 DEE ‘ready-mix’ at 0.4 kg/ha followed by one hand weeding on 30-35 DAT will have a broad spectrum of weed control. Any herbicide has to be mixed with 50 kg dry sand on the day of application (3-4 DAT) and applied uniformly in the field with thin film water on the 3rd DAT. Water should not be drained for next 2 days from the field (or) fresh irrigation should not be given. Post – emergence herbicides Where broad-leaved weeds and sedges are predominant, apply 2,4-D sodium salt (Fernoxone 80% WP) 1.25 kg/ha dissolved in 625 litres of water with a high volume sprayer, three weeks after transplanting or when the weeds are in 3-4 leaf stage. Wet seeded rice Spray any of the following herbicides: Butachlor 50% EC @ 2.5 kg/ha (1.25 kg ai/ha) or Thiobencarb 50% EC @ 2 kg/ha (1.00 kg ai/ha) 6-9 days after sowing Pretilachlor + safener (sofit) 50% EC@ 2.25 kg/ha (0.45 kg ai/ha) 3-5 days after sowing. Give a follow up application of 2,4-D 3.8% EC @ 3.04 kg/ha (0.8 kg ai/ha) at 20 days after sowing. To control Echinochloa sp. spray cyhalofop butyl 10% EW @ 0.8 kg/ha (0.08 kg ai/ha) at 15-18 days after sowing. Dry seeded rice Spray any of the following pre-emergent herbicides: Thiobencarb 50% EC @ 3 kg/ha (1.5 kg ai/ha), butachlor 50 % EC @ 2.5 kg/ha (1.25 kg ai/ha), oxyfluorfen 4% EC @ 6 kg/ha (0.15 kg ai/ha), pendimethalin 30% EC @ 4.5 kg/ha (1.50 kg ai/ha), pretilachlor 50% EC @ 3.75 kg/ha (0.75 kg ai/ha) on the same day of seeding or within six days of seeding. Recommendations for Karnataka Take up hand weeding at 20 and 40 days after transplanting and at 20 and 40 days after sowing in transplanted and drill sown Paddy respectively. Herbicide Quantity (ha) Time of application Remarks Transplanted Paddy - 2, 4- D Sodium salt 80 % 2.5 kg 3 - 4 weeks after transplanting We can control dicotyledonous weeds and annual grasses. Propanil 35 EC 7.5 lit weeds are at 1 or 2 leaf stage We can control both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous weeds. Butachlor 5 % G 30 kg Broadcast the granules at 5 - 7 days after transplanting - 2,4 - D ethyl ester 5 % G 15 kg Spray 5 - 7 days after transplanting - Anilogard 1.5 lit --do-- - Thiobencarb 50 EC 4.0 lit Within 5 days after transplanting - Pendimethalin 30 EC 3.3 lit Within 3 - 5 days after transplanting - Oxidiazon 25 EC 1.0 lit Within 3 - 5 days after transplanting - Drill sown paddy Propanil 35 EC 7.5 lit Spray on weeds at 4 weeks after sowing We can control both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous weeds. Butachlor 50 EC 3.0 lit Within 5 days after sowing - Pendimethalin 30 EC 3.3 lit Within 5 days after sowing Controls weeds belongs to Graminae family Biological weed control Use of living organisms viz., insects, disease organisms, herbivorous fish, snails or even competitive plants for the control of weeds is called biological control. In biological control method, it is not possible to eradicate weeds but weed population can be reduced. Hirschmanniella spinicaudata is a rice root nematode which controls most upland rice weed. Bactra verutana - a moth destroys Cyperus rotundus. Ludiwigia parviflora is completely destroyed by Altica cynanea (steel blue beetle) Top Integrated Weed Management Integrated weed management (IWM) involves the concept of multiple tactics of weed management, maintenance of weed population below economic injury level and conservation of environment quality. A successful IWM strategy has the principles of enhancing farmer’s profitability, environmental protection and responsiveness to consumer preference. Major components of IWM are Monitoring weeds, shift in weed flora, appearance of resistant weeds and introduction of new weeds. Emphasis on ecological, biological and biotechnological methods for environmental safety. Low cost agronomic technology for weed management in IWM system: >> Stale seedbed >> Balanced fertilizer use >> Higher plant population >> Intercropping / relay cropping >> Use of competitive cultivars >> Supplemental herbicide use at minimum possible rate. Wet seeded rice Pre-emergence application of Pretilachlor 0.75 kg/ha or Butachlor 1.0 kg/ha on 8 DAS or Pretilachlor + safener (Soft) at 0.45 kg/ha on 3-4 DAS followed by one hand weeding on 40 DAS. Alternatively post-emergence application of Almix 4g/ha + 0.2 % surfactant at 20 DAS followed by one hand weeding on 40 DAS. Rainfed rice Apply pendimethalin 1.0kg/ha on 5 days after sowing or Pretilachlor + safener (Sofit) 0.45kg/ha on the day of receipt of soaking rain followed by one hand weeding on 30 to 35 days after sowing. Top Special Practices for Kerala In certain areas like Kuttanad, wild rice has become a menace in recent years. The following agronomic practices can successfully control the infestation of wild rice. Coat dry seeds with 20% calcium peroxide using 4% PVA solution as an adhesive and then broadcast in the field with 10-15 cm column of standing water. Maintain the water level for 10-12 days to prevent germination of wild rice. Drain the field and apply N and K fertilizer as per recommendation for rapid growth of the rice seedlings. Control of Salvinia molesta (African payal) Trampling salvinia in situ in the wet lands a week before transplanting will control the weed and add to soil fertility. For chemical control of salvinia, spray paraquat 42% TP @ 3.15 kg/ha (0.75 kg ai/ha). Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Cultivation Practices HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Sub Topics Cropping system in Tamil Nadu Cropping system in Karnataka Cropping system in Kerala Cropping System Cropping pattern is the yearly sequence and spatial arrangement of crops and fallow on a given area. Cropping system comprises all cropping patterns grown on the farm and their interaction with farm resources, other household enterprises and the physical, biological, technological and sociological factors or environments". Sequential cropping A form of multiple cropping in which paddy is grown in sequence on the same field, with the succeeding crop planted after the harvest of the preceding crop. Mixed cropping Growing of two or more varieties of paddy simultaneously and intermingled without row arrangements, where there is significant amount of intercrop competition. Mono-cropping system A system of cultivation in which a paddy is grown over a large area of land often for several years. Ratooning One of the important methods of intensive cropping, allowing the stubbles of paddy crop to strike again after harvesting and to raise another crop. Relay planting The second crop is planted into an established stand of a main crop. The second crop develops fully after the main crop is harvested. Top Rice Cropping System in Tamil Nadu Sequential cropping system In certain areas like Kuttanad, wild rice has become a menace in recent years. The following agronomic practices can successfully control the infestation of wild rice. Command areas: Rice (Aug.-Jan) – pulses/sesame/maize (Jan.-April) Rice (June-Sep.) - rice (Oct.-Jan.) - pulses / gingelly/green manure (Feb.-May) Rice (June-Sep.) - rice (Dec.-March) Rice (June-Sep.) - green manure (Oct.-Nov.) - rice (Dec.-March) Rice (Aug.-Jan.) - cotton (Feb.-June) Rice (Oct.-Jan.) - pearl millet/vegetables/sesame/ pulses/groundnut (Feb.-May) Rice (April-Aug.) - rice (Sep.-March) – fallow Well irrigated areas (Filter point well) Rice (Aug.-Jan.) - rice (Jan.-April.) - groundnut (April-June) Rice (Aug.-Nov.)-rice (Dec.-March) - rice(Mar-July) Rice/vegetables/marigold (June-Oct.) - maize (Oct.-Jan.) - pulses (Feb.-May) Rice (April-Aug.) - groundnut (Sep.-Dec.) - vegetables / gingelly (Jan.-March) Rice (Aug.-Jan.) - groundnut (Feb.-April) - sesame/ pulses/maize (April - June) Rice (Aug.-Jan.) - cotton (Feb.-June)/gingelly (Feb.- May) Rice (June-Oct.) - ragi / groundnut / gingelly (Nov.- Feb.) Rice (April-Aug.) - rice (Sep.-Jan.) - fodder sorghum (Jan.-March) Rice (Oct.-Feb.) - pulses (Feb.-May) Tankfed areas Rice (Aug.-Jan.) - rice (Jan.-April) Rice (Aug.-Jan) - maize (Jan.-April) Rice/Vegetables/watermelon (Aug.-Jan.)- groundnut/ gingelly /pulses(Feb.-May) Rice (June-Sep.)-ragi (Sep-Dec.)-pulses (Jan.-Apr) Rice (July-Nov.) - groundnut / ragi (Dec.-March) - fallow Rice (Sep.-Jan.) - cotton (Feb.-Aug.) Rice (Sep.-Jan.) - green manure (Feb.-April) Rice (Sep.-Dec.) - senna* (Jan.-March) Rice (June-Sep.) - chillies (Oct.-Feb.) Rainfed areas Upland rice/millets / pulses / groundnut / cotton / chillies (Sep.-Feb.) Dry rice (June-Aug.) - pulses / vegetables / gingelly (Sept.-Jan.) Rice (July-Nov.) Mixed varietal cropping system Coat dry seeds with 20% calcium peroxide using 4% PVA solution as an adhesive and then broadcast in the field with 10-15 cm column of standing water. Maintain the water level for 10-12 days to prevent germination of wild rice. Drain the field and apply N and K fertilizer as per recommendation for rapid growth of the rice seedlings. Control of Salvinia molesta (African payal) Growing of a mixture of autumn and winter varieties of rice in 3:1 ratio in Tamil Nadu (known as udo) is very much in practice. This system has a built-in advantage of low cost of cultivation as it eliminates of cost of land preparation for planting winter crop. However, under normal conditions it has created problems in performing agricultural operations like harvesting, deciding fertilizer doses etc. Top Rice Cropping System in Karnataka Mono-cropping system Tungabhadra project area of Karnataka is dominated by rice-rice mono-cropping system Sequential cropping system Rice -based cropping systems in the southern transitional zone of Karnataka are as follows: Rice-rice Rice-groundnut Rice-pulses Rice-fallow Rice-vegetables Rice-maize Ratoon cropping Rice ratoon cropping system offer considerable potential for increasing rice production and utilizing seasonally idle land and labour as well as residual moisture in the hilly region of Karnataka. The ratoon crop yield ranged from 76 to 350 % of the main crop yields. The ratoon crop had 24% shorter growth duration and 59 % higher mean yield than the main crop. Ratooning in Malnad region Inton and I.E.T - 7191 varieties are suitable for ratooning. Go for ratooning only good main crop was harvested. Harvest the crop 8-10 cm above ground level and after harvesting leave the land 8-10 days for drying Take up planking (hodta) 15 days after irrigation. At this stage top dress 50 kg Nitrogen through any source. Take up plant protection measures similar to that of main crop. Ratoon crop will be ready for harvest at 135 days. We can obtain 25 q yield per hectare. Top Rice Cropping System in Kerala Sequential cropping system General region Rice Rice Fallow Rice Rice Vegetable / pulses / oil seeds / green manure Kuttanad Water fallow Water fallow Rice Rice Rice Water fallow Onattukara Rice Rice Oil seed / green manure Kole / Kaippad Water fallow Rice Water fallow Water fallow Rice Rice Water fallow Water fallow Rice Pokkali Rice Fish / prawn --- High ranges Rice Rice Fallow Intercropping system : Cowpea may be raised as an intercrop in dry seeded low land (semi-dry) rice by sowing 12.5 kg seed/ha along with rice to serve as a source of green manure. When the rice field gets submerged with the onset of southwest monsoon, cowpea at the age of about six weeks and at active vegetative stage decays and gets self-incorporated in the soil adding substantial quantity of green manure. Such a system of concurrent growing of cowpea also reduces weed pressure in semi-dry rice. Mixed varietal cropping system Growing of a mixture of autumn and winter varieties of rice in 3:1 ratio in Kerala (called as koottumundkan) is very much in practice. This system has a built-in advantage of low cost of cultivation as it eliminates of cost of land preparation for planting winter crop. However, under normal conditions it has created problems in performing agricultural operations like harvesting, deciding fertilizer doses etc. RelayCropping Relay Cropping was done where seeds of pulses singly or in mixtures were broadcasted in standing paddy field 21 days before the harvesting of rice, after draining out of standing water. After the harvesting of main paddy crop, the seeds broadcasted in the standing paddy crop continues to grow till the harvesting by utilizing residual moisture and residual nutrients .The seed of succeeding crops like lentil, gram, pea, etc. is sown broadcast in maturing rice crop. This practice saves time; money (to be spent on land preparation etc.) utilizes residual fertility. This practice is common in both upland and lowland rice culture. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
FAQs HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US General Season and Climate Varieties Rice Ecosystem SRI Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Irrigation Pest and Diseases Frequently Asked Questions General What is Kisan call centre? The objective of scheme has been to make Agriculture knowledge available at free of cost to the farmers as and when desired. Kisan call centre No. is 1551 What are the Agril Implements developed from CRRI? There are several Agricultural implements developed by CRRI viz. Mini parboiling Unit, Star cum Cono weeder, CRRI multicrop seed drill (2 rows). Drum seeder, 3 row manual pull type seed drill, paddy wheel hoe. Two row rice seed cum fertilizer drill, Rice husk; Chaff stove, finger weeder, 4 row manual rice transplanter, hand shovel, hand plough. Who will provide knowledge in I.P.M.? Agricultural University and Agricultural department. What does the rice grain look like? It looks like a smooth glistening ovoid particle, emerald green in color (during ripening stage, however, it turns golden yellow). After it is milled, the kernel will appear shiny white in color. Where and when did rice originate? The origins of rice have been debated for some time, but the plant is of such antiquity that the precise time and place of its first development will perhaps never be known. It is certain, however, that the domestication of rice ranks as one of the most important developments in history, for rice is the longest, continuously grown cereal crop in the world. Botanical and linguistic evidence point to the early origin of domesticated rice along a broad arc from eastern India through Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, northern Vietnam,and into southern China. The earliest and most convincing evidence for domestication of rice in Southeast Asia was discovered in 1966 at Non Nok Tha in the Korat area of Thailand. These remains have been confirmed as dating from at least 4000 B.C. What is rice bran? The tan nutrient-rich outer layer covering a rice kernel. Rice bran has a sweet nutty flavor and is an excellent source of nutrients, minerals, and fiber. What are the two types of starch found in rice? Amylose and amylopectin. Amylose makes the rice separate and fluffy. Amylopectin, the waxy starch, gives rice a sticky consistency when cooked. Where does rice grow? Rice grows in the upland area, irrigated area, rainfed lowland area, and the flood-prone area. Rice is highly adaptable and can be grown even in diverse environments. What is a paddy? A paddy is a field that is flooded with water. Rough rice is also called paddy rice. What are the main components of the rice grain? The rice grain, commonly called a seed, consists of the true fruit or brown rice (caryopsis) and the hull, which encloses the brown rice. Brown rice consists mainly of the embryo and endosperm. The surface of the seed contains several thin layers of differentiated tissues that enclose the embryo and endosperm. What are the parts of a hull? The hull is composed of two modified leaves, the palea and lemma. They are held together by hook like structures. The cells of the mature hull are highly lignified and brittle, with high concentration of silica. What do you refer to as the embryo of the rice grain? The embryo or germ is extremely small and is located on the ventral side of the caryopsis. It contains the embryonic leaves (plumule) and embryonic root (radical), which are joined by a very short stem (mesocotyl). The plumule is enclosed by a cylinder like protective covering, the coleoptiles, and the radical is ensheathed by a mass of soft tissue, the coleorhizae. The outer side of the embryo is enclosed by the aleurone layer. What is the endosperm? Consisting of the aleurone layer and the starchy endosperm, it serves as food for the germinating embryo. What consists the vegetative organ of the rice plants? The vegetative organs consist of roots, culms (stems), and leaves. What is a panicle? The panicle is the terminal shoot of a rice plant that produces grain. What is a spikelet? A spikelet is a unit of the panicle, and consists of two sterile lemmas, the rachilla, and the floret (flower). Since rice has only one fully developed floret per spikelet, these terms are often used interchangeably. What is a tiller? A tiller is any of the extra stems or culms in a rice plant that arise from its base. Varieties that have genetic capacity to put out many stems are referred to as "heavy-tillering" varieties. What is a ligule? It is a small, papery, triangular structure at the base of the leaf blade of the rice plant. How can you distinguish a male from a female rice plant? Rice is naturally a self-pollinating plant. It is self-fertilizing, that is, it has both male and female organs. To cross two varieties, you must normally remove the male parts from one variety and then fertilize it with pollen from the other. How do we get the grains from the rice plant? In some countries, rice plants are harvested by a machine called a combine harvester. Most harvesting, however, is done by hand, using a knife or a sickle. Then the grain has to be separated from the straw in a process called threshing. The rice we eat is always white but on the rice plant, and when drying on the road, it is golden in color. How do the grains change color from golden to white? After the moisture content of the rice has been reduced due to sun drying, the milling process begins. A Sheller removes the inedible hull from the rice. The bran is then removed from the brown rice by abrasion as the grains are forced to rub against one another. How long will it take to produce one variety of rice? By conventional breeding method, it will take 5 to 10 years to develop one variety of rice but with biotechnology as a tool, an outstanding variety can be developed within 1 to 2 years. How long does it take to produce a rice crop, from beginning to end? The duration depends upon the maturity of the rice being produced. It takes about 90 to 200 days for a rice crop to mature. Top Season and Climate Does climate affect rice yields? Temperature, solar radiation, and rainfall influence rice yield by directly affecting the physiological processes involved in grain production, and indirectly through diseases and insects. What is the effect of global climate change to rice production? A warming of 2°C promotes sterility in rice, reducing the yield 25% or more. Consequently, the effect of low temperature to rice production is that the growth duration of rice will be prolonged. What will be the effect of low temperatures during the ripening stage of the rice plant? Rice grains shatter easily from the panicle and grain dormancy is shorter when the temperatures during ripening are low. The rice plant produces more straw than grains. What will be the effect of high temperatures during the ripening stage of the rice plant? High temperatures accelerate grain ripening, resulting in prematurity. Prematurity may result in partially chalky and milk-white kernels and thicker bran and aleurone layers. Top Varieties How many varieties have been developed from CRRI Seventy varieties have been developed from C.R.R.I Is there any hybrid varieties of CRRI, their duration and yield? There are two hybrid varieties Ajay and Rajlaxmi. Duration is 135 days for both having yield potential of 7.5 t/ha and 7.0 t/ha respectively. Is there any Aromatic varieties of CRRI, their duration and yield? There are two Aromatic varieties of CRRI vig. Geetanjali and Ketekijoha. Duration is 135 days and 145 days with yield potential of 5.0 t/ha and 4.0 t/ha respectively. How many different kinds of rice are there? There are about 120,000 varieties known to exist. What is rough rice? Rough rice, or paddy rice, is a rice that has been harvested and threshed but still has its hull and bran. I have heard about japonica rice. What is it? The japonica varieties have narrow dark green leaves, medium-height tillers, and short to intermediate plant height. It is usually grown in cooler subtropics and temperate climates, such as Japan, Portugal, Spain, USSR, Italy, and France. What is indica rice? The traditional indica rice varieties, widely grown throughout the tropics and subtropics, are tall and heavy tillering with long, narrow, light green leaves. What is javanica rice? Javanica rice belong to the japonica race of O. sativa, and thus are morphologically similar to japonicas. However, javanicas have wider and more pubescent (hairy) leaves. In addition, the grain frequently has hairlike awns. Varieties belonging to javanicas are grown only in Indonesia, in the rice terraces of the Philippines, and in the mountainous areas of Madagascar. What is an accession? An accession is a variety, a strain, or a bulk population registered at the national center and worth conserving. Top Rice Ecosystem Which varieties of paddy are more suitable under rainfed uplands? High yielding varieties maturing within 110 days like Heera, Sneha, Pathara, Bandana, Kalinga III,Parijat, Arnapurna, Ghanteswari, Khandagiri, Nilagiri etc. to be direct sown in lines. Which varieties of paddy are more suitable for rainfed medium land? High yielding paddy varieties maturing within 135 days like Lalat, MTU-1001, Sworna etc. Which varieties of paddy are more suitable for rainfed low lands? High yielding paddy varieties maturing within 150 days like Moti, Kanchana, Gouri, Padmini, Bhaja, Samanta, Meher. Describe the upland area and its rice Many of the world's poorest farmers live in the uplands. Their farming systems are highly diverse, with tree products and livestock often making important contributions to family income. Most farmers still grow traditional varieties without using chemical inputs. More than 17 million hectares of upland rice are grown worldwide -- around 60% of them are in Asia. What about the rainfed lowland rice and its environment? The rainfed lowland ecosystem covers 37 million hectares or about one-fourth of the world's total rice area. Rainfed-lowlands are heterogeneous in any single location, diverse across locations, and unpredictable everywhere. Hundreds of the world's poorest people depend on them for their livelihood. Top System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Which is the most suited season for SRI? Dry season with assured irrigation is more suitable. In which areas we should avoid SRI? Difficulty in crop establishment may be seen in areas with heavy downpour (NE Monsoon periods of Tamil Nadu) What type of varieties used for SRI? Hybrids and varieties with heavy tillering. What is the seed rate? 7-8 kg for single seedling per hill. What is the nursery area to plant in 1 ha? Prepare 100 m2 nurseries to plant 1 ha. How much soil mixture is needed for 100 m2 nursery? Four (4) m3 of soil mixture is needed for 100 m2 nursery. How to prepare shallow raised beds? Spread a plastic sheet or used polythene gunny bags on the shallow raised bed to prevent roots growing deep into soil. What are the components of soil mixture of nursery raised beds? What is the proportion of soil mixture components? Mix 70 % soil + 20 % well – decomposed pressmud / bio – gas slurry / FYM + 10 % rice hull. Incorporate in the soil mixture 1.5 kg of powdered di – ammonium phosphate or 2kg 17 – 17 – 17 NPK fertilizer. How to prepare shallow raised beds? Filling in soil mixtures: Place a wooden frame of 0.5 m long, 1 m wide and 4 m deep divided into 4 equal segments on the plastic sheet or banana leaves. Fill the frame almost to the top with the soil moisture. How can we make the seed to germinate before sowing? Is pre - germination is needed before sowing? Pre – germinating the seeds 2 days before sowing : Soak the seeds for 24 h, drain and incubate the soaked seeds for 24 h, sow when the seeds sprout and radical (seed root) grows to 2-3 mm long. How much pre – germinated seeds required / m2 ? How to sow the seeds in raised beds? Sow the pre – germinated seeds weighing 90 – 100 g / m2 (100 g dry seed may weigh 130 g after sprouting) uniformly and cover them with dry soil to a thickness of 5 mm. Sprinkle water immediately using rose can to soak the bed and remove the wooden frame and continue the process until the required area is completed. How to maintain the nursery beds? Water the nursery with rose can as and when needed (twice or thrice a day) to keep the soil moist. Protect the nursery from heavy rains for the first 5 DAS. At 6 DAS, maintain thin film of water all around the seedling mats. Drain the water 2 days before removing the seedlings mats for transplanting. Is there any extra cares needed in nursery? If seedling growth is slow, sprinkle 0.5% urea + 0.5% zinc sulphate solution at 8-10 DAS. What is the duration of nursery period? Seedlings reach sufficient height for planting at 15 days. Lift the seedling mats and transport them to main field. How to prepare the main field for SRI? Plough the land during summer to economize the water requirement for initial preparation of land. Flood the field 1 or 2 days before ploughing and allow water to soak in. Keep the surface of the field covered with water. Keep water to a depth of 2.5cm at the time of puddling. What are the techniques to tackle the problem soil? For fluffy paddy soils: Compact the soil by passing 400 g stone roller or oil – drum with stones inside, eight times at proper moisture level (moisture level at friable condition of soil which is approximately 13 to 18%) once in three years, to prevent the sinking of draught animals and workers during puddling. How to manage the sodic soils, before transplanting? For sodic soils with pH values of more than 8.5, plough at optimum moisture regime, apply gypsum at 50 % gypsum requirement uniformly, impound water, provide drainage for leaching out soluble salts and apply green leaf manure at 5 t/ ha, 10 to 15 days before transplanting. Mix 37.5 kg of Zinc sulphate per ha with sand to make a total quantity of 75 kg and spread the mixture uniformly on the leveled field. Do not incorporate the mixture in the soil. Rice under sodic soil responds well to these practices. How to manage the salinity problem of soil before transplant? For saline soils with EC values of more than 4 dS/m, provide lateral and main drainage channels (60 cm deep and 45 cm wide), apply green leaf manure at 5 t / ha at 10 to 15 days before transplanting and 2 % extra dose of nitrogen in addition to recommended P and K and ZnSo4 at 37.5 kg/ha at planting. How to make the acid soil suited for SRI? For acid soils apply lime based on the soil analysis for obtaining normal rice yields. Lime is applied 2.5 t/ha before last ploughing. Apply lime at this rate to each crop up to the 5th crop. What would be the age of seedling? Single seedling of 15 days old. What is the correct time for gap filling? Fill up the gaps between 7th and 10th DAT. What is the storage time of seedling? Transplant within 30 minutes of pulling out of seedlings. How to manage the irrigation? Irrigation only to moist the soil in early period of 10 days. Restoring irrigation to a maximum depth of 2.5 cm after development of hairline cracks in the soil until panicle initiation. Increasing irrigation depth to 5.0 cm after PI one day after disappearance of ponded water. Which type of weeder is used in SRI? Rotary Weeder / Cono weeder. How to use the Cono weeder? Moving the weeder with forward and backward motion to bury the weeds and as well to aerate the soil at 7-10 days interval from 10-15 days after planting on either direction of the rows and column. Top Nursery Management How can we use pure and healthy seeds? For using pure and healthy seeds we have to prepare a salt solution by adding 100 g of salt in 1 Litre of water. Dip the seeds in the solution. Remove the floating seeds and wash the seeds with clean water. How seed treatment can be done? Seed treatment is done to control seed borne diseases. Bavistin @ 2.5 g/kg of seeds or Beam 75 @ 0.6 g/kg of seeds. How seedling treatment is done at nursery bed? Seedling treatment is done by application of Furadon 3G @ 250 g/100 sq.m. to make the seedling resistant for at least 25-30 days against gall midge. Seedling root dip before transplanting to the mainfield for 10- 12 hours in chlorpyriphos solution @ 1ml/liter of water. What should be the age of seedling for High yielding varieties and SRI method of seedling? Age of Seedlings for HYV 20-30 days SRI 10-12 days What is direct seeding rice? It is a method of planting rice wherein the seeds are sown directly in an upland or lowland field. What is direct seeding rice? It is a method of planting rice wherein the seeds are sown directly in an upland or lowland field. What is meant by breeder seeds? Breeder seed: Breeder seed is seed or vegetative propagating material directly controlled by the originating or sponsoring plant breeder of the breeding programme or institution and/ or seed whose production is personally supervised by a qualified plant breeder and which provides the source for the initial and recurring increase of foundation seed. What is meant by foundation seeds? Foundation seed: Foundation seed shall be the progeny of Breeder seed or be produced from foundation seed, which can be clearly traced to Breeder seed. Thus foundation seed can even be produced from foundation seed during the production of Foundation Seed the minimum seed certification standard shall be the same for both foundation seed stage-I and II. The certification tag shall be white colour for both foundation seed stage-I and II. The production of foundation seed stage I and II shall be supervised and approved by the certification agency and be so handled as to maintain specific genetic identity and genetic purity and shall be required to confirm to certification standards specified for the crop / variety being certified. What is meant by certified seeds? Certified seed shall be the progeny of foundation seed and its production shall be so handled as to maintain specific genetic identity and purity according to the standards prescribed for the crop being certified. Certified seed may be the progeny of certified seed provided this reproduction does not exceed three generations beyond foundation seed stage-I. What is hybrid seed? The first generation resulting from crossing of two varieties or parents. Hybrid(certified) seed is the first generation resulting from the cross of two approved inbred lines or parents , one of which is male sterile. What is Labelled Seed? The seed notified under Section 5 of the Seeds Act, 1966. Such seed sold in the market has to be labelled as prescribed under Section 6(a) and (b) of the Seeds Act. Such seed is called Labelled Seed. Which are the agencies that can produce certified seeds? Anybody willing to come forward to produce certified seed can produce certified seed. At present State Seeds Corporations, National Seeds Corporation, State Farm Corporation of India, State Departments of Agriculture, Private Companies, Cooperatives and individual farmers are producing certified seed. What is Seed Replacement Rate? Seed Replacement Rate is the percentage of area sown out of total area of crop planted in the season by using certified/quality seeds other than the farm saved seed. What are Genetically Modified, transgenic crop/ seed? Genetically Modified seed is developed by application of biotechnology wherein a specific gene from other genus is inserted by genetic manipulation to make it resistant against certain characteristics like insect pest resistance, for example in the Bt. cotton, Cry1 AC gene has been incorporated in the cotton seed from a soil bacteria i.e. Bacillus thirugenesis which make it resistant against the attack of boll worm. Top Cultivation Practices What will be the planting distance for high yielding varieties, hybrid rice and SRI method? Planting distance for HYV 20cmX10cm or 20cmX15cm or 15cmX10cm Hybrid rice 20cmX20cm SRI method 25cmX25cm or 30cmX30cm. What should be the age of seedling for High yielding varieties and SRI method of seedling? Age of Seedlings for HYV 20-30 days SRI 10-12 days How much plant population will be maintained in transplanted paddy? 70 hills/m2 for varieties maturing within 110 days. 50hills/m2 for varieties maturing within 135 days. 35 hills/m2 for varieties maturing within 155 days. What are the methods of growing rice? Transplanting and direct seeding. What is transplanting rice? In transplanting rice, seedlings are first grown in seedbeds before they are transplanted in the fields. What are the three growth phases of the rice plant? Vegetative, reproductive, and ripening. How do you characterize the vegetative stage? It is characterized by active tillering (when shoots arise from the main culm or stem), gradual increase in plant height, and leaf emergence at regular intervals. How do you characterize the reproductive growth stage? It is characterized by culm elongation (which increases plant height), decline in tiller number, emergence of the flag leaf (the last leaf), booting, heading, and flowerings. How do you characterize the ripening stage? It is characterized by leaf senescence and grain growth. In the reproductive growth stage, what do you refer to as the booting? During the latter part of the panicle development stage (about 16 days after visual panicle initiation), the sheath of the flag leaf swells. This swelling of the flag leaf sheath is called booting. What about the heading stage? It is the emergence of the panicle out of the flag leaf sheath. What about flowering? The flowering stage occurs when the anthers of the terminal spikelets protrude and shed pollen. It occurs 25 days after visual panicle initiation regardless of the variety. Ripening involves three stages; what are these? These are the milky grain stage, the dough grain stage, the yellow-ripe grain stage, and the mature grain stage. How do you describe the milky grain stage? The contents of the caryopsis (the starch portion of the grain) are first watery but later turn milky in consistency. When held upright, the top of the panicle during milk stage will bend gently in an arc. The content of the grain is a white liquid that can be squeezed out. What about the dough grain stage? It is when the milky portion of the grain turns first into soft and later hard dough. And what about the mature grain stage? The grain color in the panicles begins to change from green to yellow. The individual grain is mature, fully developed, and is hard and free from green tint. The mature grain stage is complete when 90-100% of the filled spikelets have turned yellow. The panicle arches further with the exception of a few still green spikelets and all grains are yellow and hard. What about weed management? Just as with insect pests of rice, a mixture of approaches for weed management needs to be applied. For more than 2,000 years, water and the physical removal of weeds have been the dominant components of weed management. To date, herbicide application is the solution. But other approaches needs to be developed. Good land management with level fields can be combined with minimum water use for effective weed control, use of clean seeds can prevent new weed species from being introduced; and mechanization of planting, both for transplanting and for direct seeding, allows for easier weed management. Long- term solutions to weed management will include developing rice cultivars that outcompete weeds for resources (light, nutrients, and water) and that interfere with weed growth. Weeds have their own pests: insects, diseases, and nematodes. Opportunities exist to use these indigenous natural control agents as biological weed management tools. Why do some farmers prefer transplanting rather than direct seeding? So the rice will have a head start over the weeds. This will minimize the cost of weeding and expensive chemicals. Top Nutrient Management What will be recommended fertilizer dose for rainfed upland, Kharif and Rabi rice. Fertilizer dose for unfavourable rainfed upland NPK will be @ 40-20-20 kg/ha Lowland Kharif irrigated rice 60-30-30 kg/ha Rabi rice 80-40-40 kg/ha What will be recommended fertilizer dose for Hybrid rice and Aromatic rice? Fertilizer dose for Hybrid rice N, P & K 100-60-60 kg/ha Aromatic rice N,P,K ,Zn 60-30-30-25 kg/ha How fertilizer management can be done in nursery bed? Fertilizer dose for 10 decimal areas is as follows. For 10 decimal nursery area, it is recommended to use 2 quintal of FYM, 4.5 kg of Urea, 13 kg of SSP and 3.5 kg of MOP. If required 4.5 kg Urea may be applied as top dressing after 15 days of sowing. What is Azolla? How Azolla can be beneficial to us? Azolla is a water fern. It fixes atmospheric nitrogen into the soil with the help of blue green algae by symbiosis process. Its application improves soil health and soil fertility. Azolla suppresses weed growth, reduces loss of applied chemical Nitrogen fertilizer. Azolla Biofertilizers technology is simple, economic and ecofriendly. In rice field Azolla grown once before or after planting can produce upto 25 tons of fresh biomass and contribute upto 50 kg N/ha. Azolla grown once during the cropping season can easily supply 20-40 kg N/ha. Azolla can be used as a feed for poultry, duckery, fish and cattle. Which is the cheapest source of nitrogenous fertilizer? Urea fertilizer is the cheapest among all types. In acid soils which type of phosphate fertilizer is helpful? Rock phosphate should be applied one month before sowing or 50% Rock phosphate + 50% single super phosphate. At which time phosphate fertilizer will be applied? Only basal application at the time of final ploughing. What are the types of Biofertilizers and for which crop these can be applied Type of Biofertilizers: Azotobactor for all non-paddy crops. Azospirillum for wet land paddy crop. Rhizobium for pulses and Groundnut. P.S.M. for all crops. Potash solublising micro-organism for all crops. How the soil health can be maintained? By application of organic manure and recycling of crops residues. What is fertilizer dose of high yielding paddy? 24:12:12 kgs of NPK per acre for short duration. 32:16:16 kgs of NPK per acre for medium and late duration high yielding paddy. How the nitrogen fertilizer will be applied in paddy crop? 25% at the time of sowing/transplanting 50% at the time of beausaning/Tilling. 25% at panicle initiation stage. In fertilizer application, what does topdressing mean? Topdressing means applying fertilizer to the soil or water surface after seeding or transplanting or after the crop has been well established (usually at the panicle initiation stage about 3 weeks after flowering). Top Irrigation What are the critical growth stage for water requirement of paddy? Rice: Seedling stage. Maximum tilling stage Panicle initiation stage Flowering Stage Soft dough or milky stage. Describe irrigated rice Irrigated rice is grown in bunded, puddled fields with an assured water supply for one or more crops a year. Worldwide, 80 million hectares of irrigated rice (55% of the total area) produce about three quarters of all rice harvested. Average yields vary from 3 to 9 tons per hectare. Describe flood-prone rice and its environment Farmers in South and Southeast Asia grow approximately 10 million hectares of flood-prone rice, which account for nearly 88% of all such rice grown in the world. There are three major kinds of flood-prone rice: deepwater, which tolerates water depths of 50-l00 centimeters; floating, which can be found in water up to 400 centimeters deep; and tidal wetland, which can survive submergence, sometimes in salty water, for short periods. Top Pest and Diseases What are the major insect pests of rice? Paddy stem borer, Gall midge, Swarming caterpillar, Rice case worm, Rice skipper, Leaf folder or Leaf roller, Rice horned caterpillar, Yellow hairy caterpillar, Grasshopper, Spiny beetle, Whorl maggot, Green leafhopper, Brown plant leafhopper, White backed plant hopper, Mealy bug, Rice ear head bug, Thrips. What is the reason for central shoot drying and chaffy grains? Paddy stem borer. What are the cultural methods for control paddy stem borer? Avoid close planting and continuous water stagnation Pull out and destroy the affected tillers Set up light traps to attract and kill the moths Harvest the crop up to the ground level and disturb the stubbles When will Trichogramma japonicum release to control rice pest? Within a week of noticing moth activity Name of the varieties, resistant to paddy stem borer Ratna, Jaya and TKM 6. Which insecticide is best to control paddy stem borer and its recommended dose per ha? Fenthion 100 EC 500 ml/ha (or) Monocrotophos 36 SL 1000 ml/ha (or) Fenitrothion 50 EC 1000 ml/ha (or) Phosalone 35 EC 1500 ml/ha (or) Quinalphos 25 EC 1000 ml/ha (or) Phosphamidon 40 SL 600 ml/ha (or) Profenophos 50 EC 1000 ml/ha. What is the reason for tube gall/onion/silver shoot symptom and how to control it? Gall midge. Fenthion 100 EC 500 ml/ha (or) Fenitrothion 50 EC 1000 ml/ha (or) Phosalone 35 EC 1500 ml/ha (or) Quinalphos 25 EC 1000 ml/ha (or) Phosphamidon 40 SL 600 ml/ha. How to prevent / manage the rice gall midge by cultural methods? After the crop harvesting plough the field immediately Use early maturing varieties and resistant varieties like MDU 3, Shakhi, Vikram and Sureka Optimum recommendation of potash fertilizer Infra red light traps attract gall midge effectively When and how to release the Platygaster oryzea in rice field At 10 DAT and release it @ 1 per 10m2 in the main field Name some insecticides to control gall midge effectively. Fenthion 100 EC 500 ml (or) Quinalphos 25 EC 1000 ml/ha What is the reason for cattle grazing appearance of the field? Swarming caterpillar What are the favourable months for swarming caterpillar? July – September How to control/manage swarming caterpillar rice field? Kerosenate the water while irrigation-suffocation Allow ducks into the field How to control/manage swarming caterpillar in nursery? Drain the water and spray Chlorpyripos 20 EC 80ml What are the cultural management practices following to control case worm in rice field? Mix 250 ml of kerosene to the standing water Dislodge the cases by passing a rope and drain water Collect the cases and destroy What are the insecticides to control case worm? Main field - Spray Monocrotophos 36WSC 500ml/ha What insecticides to control rice skipper? monocrotophos 36 WSC 500ml /ha How to control leaf folder Use resistant varieties like TNAU LFR 831311, Cauveri, Akashi, TKM-6, IET 7511, IET 9225 and IET 9797. Clipping of affected leaves reduces the pest population. Keep the bunds clean by trimming them and remove the grassy weeds. Avoid use of excessive nitrogenous fertilizer. Set up light traps to attack and kill the moths. Release Trichogramma chilonis on 37, 44 and 51 DAT thrice followed by three sprays of monocrotophos 36 SL @ 1000 ml/ha on 58, 65 and 72 DAT. Spray neem seed kernel extract 5% @ 25 kg (or) Fenitrothion 50 EC 1.01 (or) phosalone 35 EC 1.5 l (or) Chlorpyripos 20 EC 1.25 l/ha. What are the names of the resistant variety for leaf folder in rice? TNAU LFR 831311, Cauveri, Akashi, TKM-6, IET 7511, IET 9225 and IET 9797. What is the reason for defoliation of leaves from the tip irregularly? Rice horned caterpillar How to control/manage Rice horned caterpillar ? Rice horned caterpillar, monocrotophos 36 WSC 500ml/ha Which insect cut the stem at panicle stage in rice filed? Grasshopper How to control or manage yellow hairy caterpillar? Monocrotophos 36 WSC 500ml/ha How to control/mange grasshopper with cultural practices and insecticide Expose the eggs to be picked up by birds after ploughing and trim the bunds Dusting the crop with methyl parathion 2% @ 25-30 kg/ha or malathion 5%@20kg/ha. How to manage the blue-black shiny beetle with spines on the thorax? Leaf tip containing blotch mines should be destroyed Manual collection and killing of beetles with hand nets What is the reason for yellowish white longitudinal marginal blotching with hole in a emerging leaves? Whorl maggot What is the reason for yellowing of leaves from tip to downwards? Green leafhopper Name of the vector for rice tungro virus, rice yellow and transitory yellowing? Green leafhopper What are the resistant varieties available for green leafhopper? IR 50, CR 1009, Co 46 How to manage/control green leafhopper? Apply neem cake @ 12.5 kg/20 cent nursery as basal dose Set up light traps to attract and control the leaf hopper Spray insecticides twice 15 and 30 days after transplanting like Phosphamidon 40 SL @ 1000ml/ha or Profenophos 50EC @ 1000ml/ha What is the reason for scorched appearance or hopper burn? Brown plant leafhopper Name of the vector of grassy stunt, ragged stunt and wilted stunt diseases? Brown plant leafhopper What are the released varieties which is resistant/tolerant to brown plant leafhopper? Aruna, ADT 36, Co 42, Co 46, IR 36 and IR 72. What are the cultural management practices for control brown plant leafhopper in rice field? Avoid close planting and provide 30 cm rogue spacing at every 2.5 cm Avoid use of excessive nitrogenous fertilizers Control irrigation by intermittent draining Set up light traps during night or yellow pan traps during day time Conserve natural enemies like Lycosa pseudoannulata, Cyrtorhinus lividipennis Avoid use of insecticides causing resurgence such as synthetic pyrethroids, methyl parathion, fenthion and quinalphos Drain the water before the use of insecticides and direct the spray towards the base of the plants What are the herbicides can spray to control brown plant leafhopper in rice? Spray any one of the following: Phosphamidon 40 SL 1000 ml/ha Monocrotophos 36 SL 1250 ml/ha Phosalone 35 EC 1500 ml/ha Carbaryl 10 D 25 kg/ha Methyl demeton 25 EC 1000 ml/ha Acephate 75 SP 625 gm/ha Chlorpyriphos 20 EC 1250 ml/ha Carbofuran 3 G 17.5 kg/ha Dichlorvos 76 WSC 350 ml/ ha Neem oil 3% 15 lit/ha Iluppai oil 6% 30 lit/ha Neem seed kernel extract 5% 25 kg/ha Which insect cause hopper burn in irregular patches? White backed plant hopper 37. What is the insect name it’s having diamond like marking presence on the thorax and black streaks in the ovipositional site? White backed plant hopper How to manage/control white backed plant hopper by cultural methods? Avoid use of excessive nitrogenous fertilizers Control irrigation by intermittent draining How to manage/control the white backed plant hopper by herbicides? Phosphamidon 40 SL @ 1000ml/ha, Monocrotophos 36 SL @ 1250ml/ha Carbofuran 3 G @ 17.5 kg/ha, Dichlorvos 76 WSC @ 350 ml/ha Neem oil 3% @ 15 lit/ha, Illuppai oil 6% @ 30lit/ha, Neem seed kernel extract 5% @ 25 kg/ha What is the insect name its looking like wingless small reddish white in color covered with filamentous materials? Mealy bug How to control mealy bug in rice field by biocontrol method? The mealy bug is parasitized by Adelencyrtus sp., Dolihoceros sp., Gyramusa sp, Parasyrphophagus sp., Xanthoencyrtus sp and predated upon by Gitonides perspicax, Leucopsis luteicomis, Scymnus sp., Pullus sp., Anatrichus pygmaeus and Mepachymerus ensifer. What are the herbicides can spray to control mealy bug in rice field? Spray any one of the following insecticides in the initial stage of infestation Dimethoate 30 EC 500 ml/ha or methyl demeton 25 EC @ 500ml/ha What is the reason for appearance of black spots on the grains? Rice earhead bug Presence of dark, reddish brown in rows of 10-15 cm on the leaves per panicles is which insects’ egg? Rice earhead bug How to manage/control the rice ear head bug? Dust any one of the following at 25 kg/ha twice, the first during flowering and second a week later : Quinalphos 1.5 D (or) Fenitrothion 2 D (or) Carbaryl 10 D (or) Malathion 5 D (or) KKM 10 D (The new KKM dust formulation consists of 10% of Acorus calamus rhizome powder and 90% of flyash which is a waste product from Thermal Power Station. This dust formulation repels the rice earhead bug.) Spray any one of the following twice as above: Monocrotophos 36 SL 500 ml/ha (or) Fenitrothion 50 EC 1000 ml/ha (or) Fenthion 100 EC 500 ml/ha (or) Malathion 50 EC 500 ml/ha (or) Neem seed kernel extract 5% 25 kg/ha (or) Notchi or Ipomoea or Prosopis leaf extract 10%. What is the reason for terminal rolling and drying of leaves from tip to base? Thrips What are the herbicide can spray to control dark brown color Thrips? Spray any one of the following : Phosphamidon 40 SL 600 ml /ha (or) Monocrotophos 36 SL 500 ml /ha What is the ETL of stem borer? Moderate to severe in nursery, 5% dead hearts or 1 eggmass/m2 at planting to tillering stage or one moth/m2 at panicle initiation to booting or flowering stage. What is the ETL of gall midge? One gall/m2 in endemic areas or 5% affected tillers in non endemic areas. 5% affected is the ETL at mid tillering stage. What is the ETL of whole maggot? 20% damaged hills up to 30DAP What is the ETL of case worm? 1-2 cases/hill What is the ETL of leaf folder? One damaged leaf/hill or 1 larvae/hill at planting and 1-2 freshly damaged leaf/hill at mid tillering or panicle initiation to booting stages. What is the ETL of hispa? One adult or one grub/hill at planting to pretillering stages or one adult or 1 or 2 damaged leaves/hill at mid tillering stage How Brown Plant Hopper can be controlled? Brown Plant Hopper can be controlled by following methods. Cultural control • Drain out water from field for 3-4 days. • Maintain optimum plant population, preparing alley (skip 1 row after each 20 rows) Chemical Control • Monocrotophos 36 SL @ 400 ml • Ethofenprox 10 EC @ 300 ml • Phosalone 35 EC@ 400ml • Imidacloprid @ 40 ml BPMC @ 400 ml per area in 200 Lit of water. Direct the nozzle to the base of the plant. Spray neem based pesticide @ 4-5 ml per Lit at the base of plant. How Blast disease can be controlled? Blast disease can be controlled by the following methods. Cultural Avoid raising seedlings in upland areas. Avoid excess application of N fertilizer beyond 80 kg/ha. Apply balanced fertilizer NPK in 2-3 splits. Chemical Hinosan 50EC @ 2ml/Lit of water. Bavistin 50 WP @ 2.5 g/Lit of water Aqueous extract of bael leaves (A. marmelous) @ 25 g/Lit to be grinded and mixed in 1 Lit water. Tulsi leaves (0.Sanctum) @ 25 g to be steamed for 15 minutes and mixed in 1 Lit water. How can IPM help farmers? By promoting IPM, farmers will be equipped with information and tools to make better decisions about how to control insects, weeds, diseases, and other pests without relying solely on chemical inputs that can damage the environment and cause health problems. How can spiders help farmers? Spiders are naturally voracious predators. One spider can immobilize five brown plant hopper nymphs or adults in 2 or 3 minutes. Among the 300 diverse kinds of spiders, the wolf is the best predators. How do you control golden snails? Golden apple snails have become a serious problem in the Philippines and other countries causing high losses, but there has not been an intensive and well-targeted research on these pests. It is necessary to first understand the ecological relationships of golden snails and other biotic and abiotic factors in the rice ecosystem in order to design management strategies. IRRI, meanwhile, has designed a counter-weapon -- a kitchen strainer and scraper-blade on a long handle -- to control these pests. Top 20 Points to be adopted for higher rice yields Proper season Use of season and location specific varieties Seed treatment (both wet & dry) Optimal fertilizer application (Both organic and inorganic) Application of Green manure & Green leaf manure Proper water management Pudding at optimal soil moisture condition. Leveling the field properly Application of Zinc sulphate @ 25 kg/Ha Planting young seedlings (2 seedlings/Hill) Maintaining optimum plant population Shallow planting (will lead to profuse tillering) Application of Bio fertilizer Application of urea with Gypsum and Neem cake in the ratio of 5:4:1 Split application of “N” Fertilizers Nursery management Monitoring pest and disease incidence Adopting Integrated Pest Management technology Harvesting at right time. Proper storage of produce. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Farm Implements HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Improved Direct Paddy Seeder Rice cum Daincha Seeder Rice Transplanter Seed cum Fertilizer Drill for Paddy Cono Weeder Two Row FingerType PaddyRotary Weeder Battery OperatedPortable WetlandWeeder Self Propelled Vertical Conveyor Reaper Paddy Reaper Harvester Mini Combine Harvester for Paddy Manually Operated Fertilizer Broadcaster Paddy Winnower Household Paddy Parboiling Unit TNAU Insect Trap Farm Implements Improved Direct Paddy Seeder Function : For uniform seed distribution with respect to time and for maintaining uniform plant population per metre square Specification : Power requirement : Manually operated Overall dimensions : 2000 x 1500 x 640 mm Weight : 10 kg Coverage, ha per day : 1.1 General Information : The unit consists of a seed drum, main shaft, ground wheel, floats, furrow openers and handle. The seed drum is hyperboloid shape (truncated cone) with 200 mm diameter having 12 mm flat spikes of 25 mm length kept parallel to the axis of rotation. The slopes of the cone facilitate the free flow of seeds towards the metering holes. Nine numbers of seed metering hole of 10 mm diameter were provided along the circumference of the drum at both the ends at a row-to-row spacing of 200 mm. Two floats were provided on either side to restrict the sinkage and to facilitate easy pulling of the unit. Cost of the unit (approx) : Rs. 4800/- Salient features : Uniformity in seed sowing and plant population. Reduction in seed rate and the cost of thinning is reduced. Hill dropping of seeds is achieved and continuous drilling is eliminated. Top Rice Cum Daincha Seeder Function : It sows paddy in 3 rows and green manure in 3 rows simultaneously. Specification : Power requirement : Manually operated Overall dimensions : 1650 x 1600 x 690 mm Weight : 15 kg Coverage, ha per day : 0.8 ha per day General Information : The seeder has two drum hoppers , two skids, a ground wheel and a handle. Paddy seed rate can be adjusted from 72 – 75 kg per ha. The seeder simultaneously sows pre germinated paddy seeds and daincha seeds in alternate rows and puddled soil. The advantage of this seeder is avoidance of separate cultivation of green manure crop. Cost of the unit (approx) : Rs. 6000/- Salient features : Uniformity in seed sowing and plant population. Reduction in seed rate and the cost of thinning is reduced Hill dropping of seeds is achieved and continuous drilling is eliminated. Growth of competitive weeds is checked due to green manure crop. Top Rice Transplanter Function : For transplanting mat type paddy seedlings. Suitable for all transplanted type paddy varieties. Specification : Type : Manually operated Power requirement : One operator and one labour to transport mat seedlings Overall dimensions : 1230 x 1250 x 835 mm Weight : 17 kg Capacity : 0.25 ha / day General Information : The machine consists of a seedling tray, forks, handle and skids. By pressing the handle, the forks pick-up the seedlings and plant them in 6 rows. For every stroke of the handle the seedling tray moves side wards for uniform picking of seedlings by the forks. The operator has to pull the machine while punching the handle at the desired spacing. The Row to row spacing is 200 mm. Cost of the unit : Rs. 7500/- Salient features : Planting can be done in 6 rows at a time. Top Seed cum Fertilizer Drill for Paddy Function : For direct sowing of paddy and simultaneous application of fertilizer Specification : Type : Mounted implement Power requirement : 35 – 45 hp tractor Capacity : 3 ha/day General Information : Cost of the unit (Approx) : Rs.45000/- Salient features : The seed rate and fertilizer rate can be adjusted Can be operated by a 35 HP tractor By applying the required quantity of fertilizer at root zone, better crop growth and more yields is obtained. Saving in cost:65% Saving in labour:84% Cost of operation: Rs.800 / ha Top Cono Weeder Function : For weeding between rows of paddy crop Type : Manually operated Number of rotors : Two Number of operators : One Overall dimensions : 37 cm x 1.4 m Weight : 5 to 6 kg General Information : The cono weeder has two conical rotors mounted in tandem with opposite orientation. Smooth and serrated blades mounted alternately on the rotor uproot and burry weeds because the rotors create a back and forth movement in the top 3 cm of soil, the cono weeder can satisfactorily weed in a single forward pass without a push pull movement. Cost of the unit (approx) : Rs. 1500/- Salient features : Easy to operate by a single operator The weeder does not sink in puddled soil Field capacity 0.18 ha/day Top Two Row Finger Type Paddy Rotary Weeder Function : For weeding in paddy row crops Type : Manual operated Power requirement : - Capacity : 0.35 ha / day General Information : Cost of the unit (Approx) : Rs.900/- Salient features Row spacing can be adjusted for 20cm and 25 cm One man can easily operate the unit continuously By push pull action the weeds are buried and soil aerated. Saving in cost :80% Saving in labour : 60% Cost of operation: Rs.250 / ha Top Battery Operated Portable Wetland Weeder Function : For weeding in SRI field Specification : Type : Manual operated Power requirement : Capacity : 0.2 – 0.3 ha/day General Information : Cost of the unit (Approximate) : Rs.8000/- Salient features : Easy to operate compared to cono weeder Operated without experiencing any drudgery Weeding efficiency: 95% Cost of operation: Rs.625/ha Top Self Propelled Vertical Conveyor Reaper Function : For harvesting paddy Overall dimensions (L x W x H), mm : 2200 x 950 x 1100 Type : Self propelled engine Power requirement : 3.0hp Capacity : 0.125 ha h-1 General Information Vertical conveyor reaper (0.75 m) of TNAU is light in weight and hence shifting the reaper from one field to another is easy. Operating the reaper is fatigue free. The total cost of the machine is well within the purchasing power of the small farmers. It is highly cost economical when compared to other paddy harvesters and combine and manual harvesting. Cost of the unit (Approx) : Rs.60,000 Top Paddy Reaper Harvester Function : For harvesting and windrowing non-lodging paddy varieties. It is a self propelled unit and width of coverage is 0.75 m. Specification : Type : Self propelled Power requirement : 3 hp kerosene engine, 1 operator and 2 women labourers to collect and bundle the cut crop Overall dimensions : 2200 x 850 x 1170 mm Capacity : 1 ha / day General Information The machine consists of gear box, ground wheels, handle, cutter bar assembly, star wheels and gathering header assembly. The crop should be manually harvested along the four sides of the field for a width of 0.5m and cleared from the field for providing space to the machine. At one corner an area of 2 x 1.5m should be manually harvested to place the machine initially in the field. Since the harvested crop is discharged at the right side of the reaper the harvested should be turned always to the left side. Cost of the unit (approx) : Rs.1,00,000/- Salient features : Fuel consumption - 1 litre/ha Height of cut - 50 mm Labour - 1 operator and 2 women laboure (to collect and bundle the cut crop) Top Mini Combine Harvester for Paddy Function : For combined operations of Harvesting, threshing and winnowing Specification : Type : Self propelled Capacity : 1 ha / day Cost of the unit (approx) : Rs.3,00,000/- Cost of operation : Rs.1300 / ha Special features : Suitable for small and marginal farmers Can be easily transported to inaccessible fields Saving in cost: 80% Saving in labour: 91% Top Manually Operated Fertilizer Broadcaster Function : For broadcasting granular fertilizers like urea, DAP etc in the field uniformly. Type : Manually operated Power source One person Hopper bottom shaped : Cone Length (mm) : 280 Width (mm) : 410 -415 Height (mm) : 441 -450 Hopper capacity (kg) : 12-15 Shape of metering hole : circular Spreading disc spinner diameter, (mm) : 225 -273 Vertical clearance from hopper bottom(mm) : 24 -44 No of fins : 8 Weight (kg) : 3.8 -10 General Information It consists of a hopper with tapered bottom, with a side slope of about 46 degrees. A circular disc having X sections is fitted on a vertical shaft below the fertilizer hopper and is rotated by a handle through gear arrangement. The gear ratio between the handle and the spreading disc is 1:8.4. A metered quantity of the fertilizer through adjustable opening falls on the disc, which spreads uniformly due to centrifugal force. Machine is mounted on the shoulders and is operated at a forward speed of about 2.0 km/h. Top Paddy Winnower Function Specifications : Cleaning of paddy by winnowing Type : Power operated, continuous Overall dimensions : 1,210 mm x 960 mm x 1,430 mm Test Results Suitability for crops : Paddy Capacity : 7.5 q/h Power requirement : 1 ha electric motor Labour requirement : Two Winnowing efficiency : 97% Cost of equipment : Rs. 7,000 Salient Features The machine winnows paddy already threshed by the paddy thresher or by other means. It has a feeding hopper at the top to receive the threshed paddy, chaff and straw bits. A blower provided at the bottom sends a stream of air which separates the straw, chaff and other impurities. The dust, chaff and straw come out through an opening and cleaned paddy is taken out through another spout. Top Household Paddy Parboiling Unit Function : To parboil paddy uniformly Specification Overall dimension (D x H ) mm : 650 x 900 Capacity : 125 kg/batch Power required : 5 kg of firewood/batch General Information The parboiling drum is made of galvanized iron sheet of 20 gauge thickness with a lid. The drum is divided into three equal portions. The top two-third portion retains paddy for parboiling and bottom one-third portion holds water to produce steam for parboiling. A perforated slanting sheet with perforated pipes separates the steam chamber from parboiling chamber. The lateral perforated pipes attached to the main steam pipe divides the entire parboiling chamber into a number of small compartments and helps for uniform and simultaneous parboiling of paddy. Perforated sloping floor helps for natural unloading of parboiled paddy. The water in the drum can be heated by burning firewood or any agricultural waste. After the completion of parboiling, the remaining hot water can be used for next batch. Cost of the unit (approx) : Rs.4,500/- Cost of operation : Rs.7/h Salient features : Uniform parboiling and increased head rice recovery is possible. Times 45 minutes for parboiling the first batch of soaked paddy and 25 minutes for the subsequent batches. It can also be used as a storage bin, when not used for parboiling. Top TNAU Insect Trap Function Specifications : To utilize cir pith for the production of particle board overall dimensions (L x B x H ) : 27 mm diameter and 150 mm long Capacity : Suitable for a bin holding upto 25-50 kg Power requirement : 1 ha electric motor Labour requirement : Two Winnowing efficiency : 97% Cost of equipment : Rs. 7,000 General Information The basic characteristics of the stored product insects, viz., affinity towards air, tendency to move towards aerated region, wander in the grain and active during dusk and dawn have been exploited in the development of the trap. The stored grain insects, like red flour beetle, saw toothed beetle, rice weevil, paddy moth, turmeric beetle, drug beetle, pulse beetle, groundnut bruchid, dermestid beetles, flat grain beetles, etc with the behaviour of wandering in the bulk grain, reach the insect trap. These insects will enter the trap through the perforations and reach the stem of the trap. In the stem, as the insects cannot move upward and escape, they move towards the bottom and reach the pit fall placed at the bottom. Cost of the unit (approx) : Rs.75/- Salient features : Suited only for bin storage. 2 or 3 traps can be placed at 15 to 20 cm depth in a bin of 30 to 45 cm diameter and 25 kg capacity for maximum benefit. No insecticide is used in this trapping technique. Easy to handle and maintenance free. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Institutes HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US State LevelInstitutes National Level Institutes International Level Institutes Institutes State Level Institutes Tamil Nadu Rice Research Station, Tirur Established as Paddy experimental station in 1942 Renamed as Rice research station in 1982 Varieties released so far - TKM 1 to TKM (R) 12 Mandate To evolve high yielding and quality rice varieties suited to upland, semidry and irrigated conditions To evolve varieties tolerant to saline, alkaline and coastal inland situations To produce nucleus and breeder seeds in rice viz., TKM 9, TKM 11 and TKM (R)12, ADT 43, ADT (R)45. To identify the genotypes resistant to blast, bacterial leaf streak, Rice Tungro Disease, rice leaf folder and rice black bug To develop Integrated Nutrient Management practices and Integrated Pest and Disease Management strategies To produce and supply ornamental plants, fruit seedlings and vegetable seeds for the citizens in and around Chennai city To cater the needs of extension functionaries and farming communities of both Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram Districts To coordinate the extension activities in collaboration with allied departments Contact Rice Research Station, Tirur – 602025, Sevapet Road, Thiruvallur District Top Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute, Aduthurai First Research Station at Manganallur : 1912 Shifted to Aduthurai as Agricultural Research Station: 1922 Renamed as Regional Research Station: 1962 University Research Centre (TNAU) started in State Regional Research Station and University : 1973 Research Centre merged and names as TRRI: 1981 Elevated as a Directorate (Rice Lead Centre): 1985 Varieties released so far - ADT 1 to ADT 48 and Hybrids ADTRH - 1, 2. Mandate: To meet the research requirements of the region with the help of existing Agricultural Colleges and Research centers To perform lead function for rice and rice based cropping systems To coordinate the research program of all the stations of the state on rice and rice based cropping systems To serve as testing and verification centre for the technologies developed at other stations and applicable to the region RESEARCH SCHEMES ON RICE Scheme for the Production of breeder seed in paddy Scheme for commercial exploitation of heterosis in rice AICRIP on rice IRRI-MEGA Project - Reversing trends of declining productivity in intensive irrigated rice systems (IRRI) Hybrid rice seed production in ADTRH 1 and CORH 2 Mass Production of biocontrol agents viz., Pseudomonas and Trichoderma. Contact: Tamil Nadu Rice Research Institute, Thanjavur district, Aduthurai, Tamilnadu. PIN-612101 Telephone: 0435-2472098 (Off.) Fax: 0435-2472881 E-Mail: dirtrri @tnau.ac.in Top Agricultural Research Station, Bhavani Sagar The station is functioning from 1955 adjacent to Bhavanisagar dam, 15 km away from Sathyamangalam in Erode district on Sathy-Mettupalayam road (SH 15). The station is now known as Agricultural Research Station, Bhavanisagar. Mandate The station has been contributing mainly for the farmers of Erode and nearby districts by producing and supplying quality seeds in rice. Apart from this, the farmers were given on hand training on hybrid rice seed production and many farmers are involved in participatory seed production programmes. The water management scheme operating in this station, train the farmers in efficient usage of water by adapting different management technologies. Technologies developed and is adapted by farmers Rice Irrigation to a depth of 5 cm water once in 4 days (or) 1-2 days after disappearance of ponded water saves 30% water Top Paddy Breeding Station, TNAU, Coimbatore This station was established in the year 1912 and is the oldest rice research station in India. This centre is internationally renowned with its record in rice history, headed by the British scientists like F.R. Parnell, P.O. Iliffe and also by the first Indian paddy specialist Dr.K.Ramaiah. This is situated at an elevation of 426.72m and between 11oN latitude and 77oE longitude. The total area is 12.96 ha having clayey texture of soil with 7.8 pH. The average rainfall is 900 mm per year. Varieties released so far - CO 1 to CO 50 and Hybrids CORH - 1, 2 and 3. Objectives Development of high yielding varieties of different duration groups through Inter disciplinary approach. Collaborative research programmes are being carried out with the co-ordination of Directorate of Rice Research, Hyderabad through All India Coordinated Rice Improvement Project (AICRIP) Collaborative research with International Rice Research Institute, Philippines and Directorate of Rice Research, Hyderabad. Hybrid rice research in the National and International network programme. Genetic enhancement through innovative approaches like wide hybridization, anther culture and molecular aspects. Accomplishing post graduate research Transfer of technology to create awareness by organizing training programmes, front line demonstrations and study tours for the benefit of the farming community. Contact The Professor and Head, Dept of Rice Center for Plant Breeding and Genetics TNAU, Coimbatore – 641 003, Tamil Nadu, India. E-mail: rice@tnau.ac.in Top Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute, Tiruchy It was upgraded as Soil Salinity Research Centre to conduct research on saline soil which is unique in this area. This is one of the pioneering centre in India on problem soil, particularly salt affected soils. Varieties released so far – TRY 1, 2 and 3. Research: To evolve crop varieties and technologies best suited for salt affected soils. A high yielding, salt tolerant, medium duration (135 to 140 days) rice variety TRY.1 has been released. A salt tolerant rice culture has been identified as suitable for Kuruvai and Navarai seasons of Tamil Nadu and released as TRY ( R ) 2 with a duration of 115-120 days. A new spentwash technology for reclamation of the non-saline calcareous sodic soil was developed, perfected and test verified on large scale in the ACRP mass reclamation project By application of organic amendments like pressmud or FYM 50 kg/cent with or without daincha 25kg /cent, rice seedlings can be raised in sodic soil with sodic water irrigation. Under saline and sodic soils of coastal area, application of Derris indica @ 5 t/ha remaining N as urea in 3 splits along with Azospirillum in rice TRY.1 variety recorded higher yield and also reclaimed the problem soils. Contact: Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College & Research Institute Navalur Kuttapattu Trichy – 620 009 Web Site:www.tnau.ac.in Email:deanagritry@tnau.ac.in Phone No:0431-2906100 Fax.No:0431-2690693 Top Agricultural College &Research Institute, MADURAI Varieties released so far – MDU 1 to 5. Significant research highlights are: Production of quality paddy seeds. MDU 5 a short duration (105 days) rice was released. It is also drought tolerant and suitable for tank fed area. IET 153577 a medium duration Basmati culture has been identified for release in southern districts. Among the recent recommendation, the aged seedlings for throwing method in rice has been determined as 25 days provided a mean yield of 4199 kg with a gross income of Rs. 20,995/ha. Cold tolerance in rice grown in Cumbum valley can be induced with the application of 25 kg/ha Zinc Sulphate. On per cent Sodium Molybdate spray after N top dressing and on 30th day gives highest rice grain yield under cold stress condition. Screening of rice cultures against WBPH has resulted in identification of 21 cultivated genotypes resistant to WBPH that can be used for resistance breeding. Production of Rhizobium and Azospirillum along with silicate solublizing bacteria have helped to reduction in use of inorganic urea fertilizer and improve the uptake of phosphate and silica in rice Contact: Dean Agricultural College and Research Institute Madurai-625104 India Email: deanagrimdu@tnau.ac.in Phone: 91-452-2422956 Top Soil and water Management Research Institute, Kattuthottam Soil and Water Management Research Institute, Kattuthottam, Thanjavur was established during 1972 Objectives To conduct research on the improved methods of water conveyance, application and utilization on rice and other crops grown in the Cauvery Delta Zone To work out the optimum irrigation methods and water requirements for rice. To study the soil, water and nutrient interactions and their effect on the growth and yield of crops Technologies developed Rice: Improved drum seeder- Institute test verified and improved Broadcasting of seedlings of 15 or 20 days old in to the puddle and leveled soil without any reduction in grain yield with considerable labour saving and B:C ratio Site Specific Nutrient Management (SSNM)- farmers can dynamically adjust and efficiently manage the nutrients application. Application of neem leaf blended urea gave higher yield Application of green leaf manure and phosphobacterium increased yield. Foliar spray of DAP 2% with KCl 1% improved the seed quality and yield Summer ploughing with mould board plough reduced water requirement and weed proliferation. Contact address Professor and Head Soil and water Management Research Institute Kattuthottam Thanjavur 613 501 Phone: 04362- 267680 Fax: 04362- 267619 E-mail: arsswmri@tnau.ac.in Top Rice Research Station, Ambasamudram The Rice Research Station at Ambasamudram was opened at 1937. The Station was started in an area of 9.49 acres of double crop wet land and 2.18 acres of dry land. Varieties released so far - ASD 1 to ASD 20. Objectives: Improvement of the local varieties of paddy by pure line selection and hybridisation to try the possibilities of introducing new varieties of paddy from other places and also for conducting manurial and cultural experiments. It evolves high yielding varieties of rice that would suit different agro climatic contexts which quality would resist major insects and diseases. Providing techniques on seed and main field treatments for improved rice varieties, and Providing suitable manurial recommendations for rice varieties under cultivation and for pre-release cultures culturing native soil fertility with bio-fertilizer, Forecasting insects or diseases in relation to weather conditions and providing suitable plant protection measures are the other functions of the station. This Research station has released many improved strains in rice, of which the strains ASD 16 and ASD 18 in 1994-95. Contact: Rice Research Station Ambasamudram - 627 401 04634 – 250215 Fax No.: 04634 255424 arsasd@tnau.ac.in Top Agricultural Research Institute, Tirupathisaram The Agricultural Research Station, Thirupathisaram was started in the year 1976. Objectives: Evolving suitable rice varieties for Kanyakumari District Recommending suitable package of practices for cultivation of rice varieties and Solving the problem of the farmers in cultivation of crops Varieties Released - TPS 1, TPS 2, TPS 3, TPS(R)4 Contact: Agricultural Research Station Thirupathisaram 629 901 Kanyakumari District, Tamil Nadu É(04652) 276728 Fax : 04652 275357 E-mail: arstps@tnau.ac.in Top Agricultural Research Station, Paramakudi Agricultural Research Station, Paramakudi is located in the southern bank of the river, Vaigai on Madurai - Rameswaram National Highway. In 1952, it was established as Research station under State Department of Agriculture. Then, it was recognized as Paddy research Sub-center from 1952 to 1958. Later it was changed as State Seed Farm from 1958 to 1978. Again it was renamed as Multi-Crop experiment sub-station from 1978 to 1981. Finally it was established as Agricultural Research Station under Tamilnadu Agricultural University from 1981 onwards. Varieties released so far – PMK- 1, 2 and 3. Objectives To evolve and evaluate very early, early duration drought tolerant high yielding rice varieties for dry and semidry conditions of Ramanathapuram and Sivagangai districts To develop improved agronomic techniques for rainfed rice. To find out alternate remunerative crops for rice during aberrant weather situations. Current Research Activities: Breeding rice varieties for higher yield and drought tolerance. Finding out suitable weed and stress management practices for dry/semi-dry rice. Sorting out suitable IPM technology for dry/semi-dry rice. Top Regional Research Station, Paiyur Established as Regional Research Station during 1973 at Dharmapuri district. It is Located on the NH-7 (Bangalore - Salem) 108 kms from Bangalore ; 29 kms from Dharmapuri. Varieties Released - Paiyur 1 Mandate Test verification centre for rice crop grown in the North Western Zone of Tamil Nadu To generate technologies for rainfed and irrigated farming practices To maintain an inventory of soils and their characteristics indicating the problem areas To survey the incidence of pests and diseases on major crops and to generate appropriate management techniques To serve as a centre for training of extension workers and farmers in production technology of millets and pulses To adopt few villages for Integrated Village Development Programme (IVDP) To publish and disseminate research findings and recommendations of the station To design and develop low cost farm implements for major crops Top Hybrid Rice Evaluation Centre, Gudalur Research: Research on Critical temperature and stages of fertility alteration in thermo- sensitive genic male sterile lines of rice The fertility behaviour of six TGMS lines and their utility in developing two-line rice hybrids were assessed as a viable genetic option for food security in tropics. A set of 17 putative TGMS lines identified at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), Coimbatore, India and IRRI-bred lines obtained from the Directorate of Rice Research, Hyderabad, were evaluated for pollen and spikelet fertility. Contact Hybrid Rice Evaluation Centre,Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, 18 New Municipal Complex, OOTY Main Road, Nilgiri District, Gudalur - 643 212, Tamil Nadu, India Tel. No: 9443222373 Fax. No: 04262-264945 Top Kerala Rice Research Station, Moncompu The station was started in the year 1940. Mandate: The centre is exclusively to deal with research on rice in Kuttanad ecosystem. A unit of All India Co-ordinated Rice Improvement Programme is functioning here. Accomplishments: The centre was instrumental in solving several problems in deep water areas such as Kuttanad. The Centre has so far released 12 rice cultivars. These are Mo1, Mo2, Mo3, Bhadra, Asha, Pavizham, Karthika, Aruna, Makom, Remya, Kanakam and Ranjini and are well accepted by the farmers. Another seven pre-release cultures were proposed for release. They are Pavithra, Panchami, Remanika, Uma, Revathy, Karishma and krishnanjana. The centre has come up with viable management strategy against varinellu (wild rice) in rice by coating rice seeds with calcium peroxide. Recommendations on nitrogen management, herbicidal control of weeds, use of rock phosphates in acid soils, etc. are other contributions. An Integrated pest management strategy has been worked out for Brown Plant Hopper of rice. Control measures for brown spot and sheath blight of rice were also evolved. An indigenous cheap and efficient rat trap "the Moncompu trap" has been designed for trapping rats in rice fields. Contact: The Rice Research Station, Monkompu is located at Monkompu, Thekkekkara of Champakaulam Panchayat in Kuttanad Taluk of Alappuzha District. Top Rice Research Station, Vyttila The Rice Research Station, Vyttila is situated in a representative site in the centre of the pokkali tract. This station started functioning during the year 1958 in a leased land in Kunnara, and was shifted to the present site in 1963. The station was taken over by the KAU in 1974. Taking into account the importance of fish- prawn culture during the saline phase, a unit for fisheries research was established during the year 1976. At present the station has a total area of 8.91 ha of which 4.25 ha are wet land. Mandate: Rice in Pokkali (Saline) areas and rice-fish farming system are the lead functions. Accomplishments: Five saline tolerant, high yielding rice cultivars suited to the Pokkali ecosystem have been evolved. The cultivars are Vyttila - 1, Vyttila - 2, Vyttila - 3, Vyttila - 4, and Vyttila -5. A technology for raising prawns as a follow up crop after rice has been standardised. Technology for the simultaneous culture of rice and fish has also been evolved. Top Agricultural Research Station, Mannuthy This station was started during the year 1957 as Rice Research Station, Mannuthy in the then Central Farm, Ollukkara. With the formation of the Kerala Agricultural University during 1972, the Rice Research Station, Mannuthy and the Agricultural Research Station, Mannuthy were taken over from the State Department of Agriculture and brought under the control of Agricultural University. In the year 1976, Rice Research Station and Agricultural Research Station were merged and this Research Station was named as Agricultural Research Station, Mannuthy with effect from 01.01.1988. Mandate: Lead functions are on rice for kole land management system, and on coconut. Verification functions include vegetables and organic farming. Accomplishments: The centre developed an extra short duration red kernelled rice cultivar, hraswa maturing in 75 - 80 days. Another cultivar Ahalya was also released for cultivation. Top Regional Agricultural Research Station, Kayamkulam Regional Agricultural Research Station, Kayamkulam is located in the Kayamkulam Municipality of Alappuzha District, one kilometer east of Kayamkulam town, on the northern side of Kayamkulam - Punalur road. The station was established in the year 1937 under the erstwhile University of Travancore. It was subsequently transferred to the Department of Agriculture in 1958 and continued to function under it till it became a part of the KAU on 07.02.72. I n April, 2000, this Station was upgraded to the status of RARS (Onattukara Region). Mandate: Lead functions are on rice in Onattukara. Accomplishments: Eight rice varieties have been released for cultivation, especially for Onattukara tract of Kerala. They are U 19, UR 110, Kottarakkara - 1, Lakshmi, Bhagya, Onam, Dhanya and Sagara. Two cultivars in rice - Makaram and Kumbham. Several crop management and crop protection recommendations for rice with respect to Onattukara tract have been evolved and recommended. Top Regional Agricultural Research Station, Pattambi Mandate: Generation and transfer of technology related to rice and rice based cropping system, pulses, vegetables, organic farming and seed technology. Current Activities : Rice Research Conservation and characterisation of germplasm Breeding for yield improvement and consumer acceptability Resistance breeding Development of hybrid rice Research on yield maximisation under different situations Nutrient management & weed control studies Research on summer rice fallow utilisation Long Term fertilizer Experiments Screening of cultures for pest and disease resistance Evaluation of new insecticides and fungicides Research on sex pheromone for pest management Studies on botanicals for control of disease and pests Accomplishments: 54 high yielding rice varieties – Aryan (Ptb l) to Karuna (Ptb54) Annapoorna : First high yielding, early, dward rice variety in the whole country Jyothi : Ever popular among farmers of the state Kairali, Kanchana, Aathira, aiswarya, Mangala Mashuri and Karuna – recent varieties Comprehensive cultivation package for rice for different seasons Scientific fertilizer schedules for rice under different situations Integrated weed management strategy with emphasis on herbicides Effective pest and disease management in rice Sources of resistance to major pest and disease Two high yielding cowpea varieties : Kanakamony and Krishnamony One high yielding early Chinese potato variety : Nidhi One high yielding mosaic tolerant variety : Indu Top Karnataka Regional Research Station, V.C. Farm, Mandya The College of Agriculture Mandya is located 10 km away from Mandya Town in Kamataka State on Mandya-Melkoteroad, which is popularly known as Vishweshwaraiah Canal (V.C) Farm. The Campus is situated at 19° N latitude and 76°E , longitude and at an altitude of 695 m above MSL. College of Agriculture – Mandya started functioning during the year 1991-92 has successfully completed 15 years of fruitful academic accomplishment. It was started as part of ruralization of Agricultural education as envisaged by Govt. of Karnataka. University of Agricultural Sciences, GKVK, Bangalore Release of hybrids and high yielding varieties in rice for the benefit of the farming community are the impressive records of the research. The University has developed and introduced as many as 143 improved varieties which include 9 hybrids since inception. In Paddy 44 (42 varieties & 2 hybrids) Contact: University of Agricultural Sciences, GKVK, Bangalore - 560 065. Ph: 080-23330984 Mob: 9448966901 E-mailregistrar@uasbangalore.edu.in Top National Level Institutes Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack. In 1945, the Government of India decided to establish a central Institute for rice research. As a result, the Central Rice Research Institute (CRRI) was setup on 22 April 1946 at Bidhyadharpur, Cuttack, Orissa with an experimental farm land of 60 hectares provided by Government of Orissa. Subsequently, in 1966, the administrative control of the institute was transferred to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). Mandate: The institute not only played a key role in ushering the country of an ear of green revolution heading to self-sufficiency in food grain supply in about 25 years from its inception, but also brought glory to the national by providing research support in rice to become the second largest exporter of rice in the world in the recent years. Contact: Central Rice Research Institute Cuttack (Orissa) 753 006, India Phone: +91-671-2367757; PABX: +91-671-2367768-783 Fax: +91-671-2367663 Email: directorcrri@satyam.net.in | crrictc@ori.nic.in Directorate of Rice Research, Hyderabad Significant Achievements The Central Sub-committee of Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties released 5 hybrids viz., DRRH 3, DRH-775, PAC835, PAC837 and HRI157 and four varieties CO(R) 50, Narendra Usar Dhan, DRR Dhan 38 and DRR Dhan 39. State Variety Release Committees have recommended 32 varieties for different situations in 11 states. IET 19543 (DRRH 44), the hybrid with high yield combining medium slender grain type and other quality characteristics is notified and released as DRRH3 for commercial cultivation in the irrigated areas of Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. DRRH3 is the first hybrid possessing medium slender grain released in the country. A novel multiplex marker system, MMS-S5, with three markers targeting the major wide-compatible gene (WCG) locus S5 has been developed. This marker can clearly distinguish the three possible allelic states (i.e. indica, japonica and neutral) at S5 and is very helpful in targeted introgression of neutral allele at the major WC G locus through MAS. Among different resource conservation technologies in rice, integrated crop management (ICM) was found to be the best in terms of grain yield. Top International Level Institutes International Rice Research Institute, Philippines IRRI, or the International Rice Research Institute, is a nonprofit independent research and training organization. IRRI was established in Los Baños, Laguna, in 1960 through funding from the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations. IRRI develops new rice varieties and rice crop management techniques that help rice farmers improve the yield and quality of their rice in an environmentally sustainable way. We work with our public and private sector partners in national agricultural research and extension systems in major rice-growing countries to do research, training, and knowledge transfer. Our social and economic research also informs governments to help them formulate policy to improve the equitable supply of rice. Our mission To reduce poverty and hunger, improve the health of rice farmers and consumers, and ensure environmental sustainability through collaborative research, partnerships, and the strengthening of national agricultural research and extension systems. Our goals Reduce poverty through improved and diversified rice-based systems. Ensure that rice production is sustainable and stable, has minimal negative environmental impact, and can cope with climate change. Improve the nutrition and health of poor rice consumers and rice farmers. Provide equitable access to information and knowledge on rice and help develop the next generation of rice scientists. Provide rice scientists and producers with the genetic information and material they need to develop improved technologies and enhance rice production . Contact Los Banos Philippines Tel: +63 2 580 5600, 845 0563 Fax: +63 2 580-5699, 845 0606 Email:irri@cgiar.org Top CIAT (Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical) International Center for Tropical Agriculture CIAT is an agricultural research institution. We focus on scientific solutions to hunger in the tropics. We believe eco-efficient agriculture—developing sustainable methods of food production—is the best way to eradicate hunger and improve livelihoods in the region. Mission To reduce hunger and poverty, and improve human health in the tropics through research aimed at increasing the eco-efficiency of agriculture. Vision CIAT will engage its key scientific competencies to achieve significant impact on the livelihoods of the poor in the tropics. Interdisciplinary and applied research will be conducted through partnerships with national programs, civil society organizations, and the private sector to produce international public goods that are directly relevant to their users. These goods include improved germplasm, technologies, methodologies, and knowledge. Contact Km 17, Recta Cali-Palmira Apartado Aéreo 6713 Cali, Colombia Phone: +57 2 4450000 (direct) or +1 650 8336625 (via USA) Fax: +57 2 4450073 (direct) or +1 650 8336626 (via USA) E-mail: ciat@cgiar.org Internet:www.ciat.cgiar.org Top Bangladesh Rice Research Institute(BRRI) MISSION Improvement of rice and development of rice production technologies for sustainable food security. VISION Producing more and quality rice at lower cost through genetic improvement Sustain biodiversity, quality and managing disease, insect, fertilizer, water and land current and future generation Improving institutional capacity for advance research And to develop new innovations for the reduction of poverty and hunger in the country. Contact: Bangladesh Rice Research Institute Gazipur 1701, Bangladesh Phone: (880-2) 9252736; 9257401-05 Fax: (880-2) 9261110 Email: brrihq@yahoo.com dg@brri.gov.bd Top Rice Research and Development Institute (RRDI), Sri Lanka Vision National Prosperity through Excellence in Rice Production. Mission To be the National Center for the Development and Primary Dissemination of Technologies to Improve the Productivity and Profitability of Rice Farming and Quality of Rice. Research: Rice Research and Development Institute (RRDI) play a major role by releasing new high yielding rice varieties and introducing improved rice production and protection technologies. The research and development programs at RRDI focuses on increasing farm productivity, reducing cost of production and improving grain quality of rice. Effort were made to develop techniques that will help to increase rice plant resource use efficiency. A need base fertilizer application method are being introduced. Contact: Department of Agriculture 25, Old Galaha Road Peradeniya Sri Lanka Telephone : 0812 388331, 0812 388332, 0812 388334 Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Marketing HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Decentralised Procurement Scheme Information Sources Do's and Dont's Market Channels Export and Import CODEX Standards Marketing Regulated Markets Importants market of paddy : Karnataka: Bangalore, Bhadravati, Devanagere, Gangavatti, Lingasugur, Manvi, Raichur, T. Narasipur, Bangarpet, Madurai, Mangalore, Mysore, Tumkur, Bellary. Kerala: Ernakulam, Trivendrum, Kozhikode, Nedumudi. TamilNadu: Thanjavar, Thiruvannamabai, Villupurm, Nagpattinum, Coimbatore, Erode, Trichirapallai, Pudukottai, Madurai, Dindigal. Decentralised Procurement Scheme present policy of the Central Government is for Decentralized Procurement whereby the State should procure and utilize the rice in the Public Distribution System. The State has participated in the procurement operation of direct purchase of paddy through the State Civil Supplies Corporation and 4 (four) other state agencies. But major target is put on FCI. The State Government through its agencies like State Civil Supplies Corporation, MARKFED, NAFED, PACS and TDCC are engaged in direct purchase of paddy from farmers. Out of the above agencies, the State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd.is actually involved in Decentralised Procurement and procured paddy by is issued under PDS. The rice of other agencies of the State Government like NAFED, MARKFED, PACS and TDCC are delivered in the nearby FCI godowns as Custom Milled Rice. Now the emphasis is more on direct purchase of paddy from farmers as it helps the farmers in getting minimum support price through account payee cheques. Top Permanent Direct Paddy Purchase Centre The direct paddy procurement functions under Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. depending upon the area of paddy cultivation and the season the temporary DPCs were established. For the farmers who harvest the crops in the Kuruvai season the DPCs were opened in the month of October and November AND FOR THE Samba farmer it was in January to March. online monitoring of DPCs of the Corporation in the state was being done to ensure smooth functioning and proper procurement of paddy from farmers. details like ground stock, quantity of paddy procured, cash and gunnies available were being monitored on a day-to-day basis by the Corporation headquarters in chennai and offices in the districts. bills were generated at the DPCs using Global Placement Tracing System. This would give details of bill number, the variety of the paddy purchased, number of bags, net weight, purchase rate per quintal, bonus rate per quintal, total value, moisture content and net amount paid to farmers. 1300 DPCs were functioning in the state. In Thanjavur district, this included 353 DPCs The farmers get token from DPCs immediately after the harvesting and based on the token order the DPCs procure the paddy. The machineries were provided for free for winnowing the paddy. The winnowed paddy was tested for its humidity, stone and the soil particles. Time : 9.30 AM to 1.30 PM. And 2.30 PM to 6.30 PM Top Mobile/Seasonal Direct Procurement Centres The temporary mobile DPCs function similar to the regular direct procurement centers. To avoid the delay in procurement the mobile DPCs were brought. In many places because of absence of the DPCs, these temporary DPCs were established. This was operated from February 2011 by Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. If any farmers or the group of farmers have 300 bags or more and if he informs, then the DPC goes to the area and procures the Paddy Directly in the field. The rules and the regulations applied for regular DPCs apply this too. The Corporation's mobile procurement centre will go to the doorsteps of farmers who had harvested 300 bags of paddy and procure them. Paddy Purchase Centre Tamil Nadu The Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TCSC) has opened Direct Purchase Centres (DPCs) to procure paddy from farmers in the districts. The Government permit the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to procure paddy under the Decentralized Procurement System, by opening adequate number of procurement centres in the Cauvery delta region and other paddy growing areas in the State, in consultation with the District Collectors on need basis. The District Collectors of the non-delta areas are also permitted to open Direct Purchase Centres depending upon the arrival of paddy. The Registrar of Cooperative Societies is also permitted to procure the paddy through Cooperative Marketing Societies and Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies. The procurement of paddy shall be made as per the Uniform Specifications prescribed by the Government of India, in all the Direct Purchase Centres in the Delta areas and in all Taluk godowns in non-delta areas (except Chennai and Nilgiris Districts) of the State. The paddy so procured shall be stocked on behalf of the Government of India for contribution to Central Pool as rice. Address to contact: 1.Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, Head office Control room, For complaints: 094451 90660 Paddy procurement complaints: 09445195840 2.Senior Zonal Manager, Thanjavur Office: 04362-235321, Private: 04362-231909 Top Kerala Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation, popularly known as Supplyco is the largest retail chain of essential commodities and consumer goods for the public of Kerala. Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) is procuring paddy directly from the farmers at the minimum support price declared by the Govt. of Kerala. Apart from this Supplyco undertake other schemes for the benefit of the common public of Kerala especially Farmers. Supplyco's paddy procurement scheme is one of such programs. In this scheme Supplyco purchases paddy from the farmers at rates fixed by Government of Kerala. The Mills selected by Supplyco directly lifts the paddy from the paddy fields and process to rice and issue this rice to the Authorized Ration Wholesalers for distributing the rice to the common people of Kerala under various Government schemes like Annapoorna, Andhyodaya etc. With the implementation of this paddy procurement scheme Supplyco ensured that the farmers of Kerala are getting a reasonably good price for their paddy and also made the private millers to procure the paddy at rates higher than the rates offered by supplyco. Supplyco also ensure that the good quality rice is available in the ration shops for the poor category people especially BPL card holders of Kerala. Address to contact: Manager (Commerce), Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd, Maveli Bhavan, Gandhi Nagar, Kochi-682020 Phone-control room - 09446400441 e-mail-agmc@supplycomail.com Top Karnataka “A” grade paddy, including Sona, Rajahamsa, IR 64, would be procured at Rs. 1,030 per quintal and other general variety of paddy at Rs. 1,000 per quintal. In addition to the minimum support price, the State Government had agreed to give Rs. 100 per quintal of quality paddy and added that Rs. 10 per bag would be given separately to the farmers. paddy with a maximum moisture content of 17 per cent would be procured at these centres. It was the responsibility of farmers to bring goods to the centre. Instruction had been passed on to the officials to procure paddy during the day, on first-come first-served basis in the interest of farmers. The district administration has initiated action to establish paddy procurement centres in all the five taluk headquarters in the district. it is decided to establish two paddy procurement centres at Sindhanur and one paddy procurement centre in each taluk headquarter in Raichur, Manvi, Deodurga and Lingsugur taluks. commence the purchase of paddy. The district administration has asked the officials of the Department of Food and Civil Supply to arrange for procurement of paddy from all the procurement centres in the district. The department has already opened two centres on the premises of the APMC at Sindhanur. BELLARY: seven out of the 10 procurement centres started functioning at APMC yards in Bellary, Hadagali, Hagari Bommanahalli, Kampli and Sirguppa and in Kurgodu in Bellary taluk and Hatcholli in Sirguppa taluk. Efforts are on to get electronic weighing machines, moisture testing equipment and the like before the three other centres are opened at Tekkalakota, Karur and Yemmiganur as demanded by the farmers. Address to contact: Karnataka Food & Civil Supplies Corporation. Ltd 16/1, Ahara Bhavan, Miller Bund Area, Vasanth Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560052 Contact no: 080 2226 0932 ‎ Top Market Information Sources Marketing Information is essential for producers in planning production and market led production. It is equally important for other market participants for trading. Recently, Govt. of India has launched Agricultural Marketing Information Network Scheme through Directorate of Marketing & Information (DMI) to bring out improvement in the present market information scenario by linking all Agricultural produce wholesale markets in the States and Union Territories. The data received from markets is being displayed on the website. Agencies for Paddy Marketing Food corporation of India (FCI), State Agricultural Marketing Federation (Market yards), State co-operative societies, Whole sale dealers i.e. Rice millers, Retail merchants Diretorate of Marketing and Inspection (DMI) To integrate development of marketing of agricultural and allied produce in the country. Promotion of grading of agricultural and allied produce. Market development through regulation, planning and designing of physical markets. Administration of Meat Food Products Order (1973); Promotion of cold storage. Liaison between the Central and State Governments through its regional offices (11) and sub-offices (37) spread all over the country. Address to contact: NH-4, CGO Complex Faridabad- Website: www.agmarknet.nic.in Food Corporation of India (FCI) Procurement of foodgrains for effective price support operations for safeguarding the interests of the farmers. Distribution of foodgrains throughout the country for Public Distribution System. Maintaining satisfactory level of operational/buffer stocks of foodgrains to ensure National Food Security. Address to contact: Barakhamba Lane, Cannaught Place, New Delhi-110001 Website:www.fciweb.nic.in Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC) Provides scientific storage and handling facilities. Offers consultancy services/ training for the construction of warehousing infrastructure to different agencies. Import and export warehousing facilities. Provides disinfestation services. Address to contact: 4/1 Siri Institutional Area Opp. Siri Fort New Delhi-110016 website: www.fieo.com/cwc/ Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) Development of scheduled agriculture products related industries for export. Provides financial assistance to these industries for conducting surveys, sensibility studies, relief and subsidy schemes. Registration of exporters for scheduled products. Adapting standards and specifications for the purpose of export of scheduled products. Carrying out inspection of meat and meat products for ensuring the quality of such products. Improving the packaging of the scheduled products. Promotion of export oriented production and development of scheduled products. Collection and publication of statistics for improving marketing of scheduled products. Training in the various aspects of industries related to the scheduled products. Address to contact: 4/1 Siri Institutional Area Opp. Siri Fort New Delhi-110016 website: www.fieo.com/cwc/ National Co-operative Development Corporation (NCDC) Planning, promoting and financing programmes for production, processing, marketing, storage, export and import of agricultural produce. Financial support to primary, regional, State and National level co-operative marketing societies is provided towards Margin money and working capital finance to augment business operations of agricultural produce. Strengthening the share capital base and Purchase of transport vehicles. Address to contact: 4, Siri Institutional Area, New Delhi-110016 website: www.ncdc.nic.in National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED) Central nodal agency of Government of India for procurement of pulses, millets and oilseeds under price support scheme. It undertakes sale of pulses and oilseeds procured under PSS and import. Provide storage facilities. Consumer Marketing Division of NAFED serves the consumers in Delhi through the network of its retail outlets (NAFED BAZAR) by providing consumer items of daily need. Processing of pulses, fruits, etc for internal trade. Address to contact: Nafed House, Sidhartha Enclave, New Delhi – 110014 Website: www.nafed-india.com Director General of Foreign Trade, (DGFT) Provides guidelines / procedure of export and import of various commodities. Allot import-export code number (IEC No) to the exporter of agricultural commodities. Address to contact: Udyog Bhavan, New Delhi. Website: www.nic.in/eximpol Director General of Commercial Intelligence & Statistics (DGCIS) Collection, compilation and dissemination of marketing related data i.e. export-import data, inter-state movement of foodgrains etc. Address to contact: 1, Council House Street Kolkata -1 Directorate of Economics and Statistics (DES) Compilation of agricultural data for development and planning. Dissemination of market intelligence through publication and internet. Address to contact: Shastri Bhavan,New Delhi Website: www.agricoop.nic.in Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Provides market information on arrivals, prevailing prices, despatches etc Provides market information of adjoining / other market committees. Arranges training, tours, exhibitions etc. Address to contact: Shastri Bhavan,New Delhi Website: www.agricoop.nic.in State Agricultural Marketing Boards (SAMBs) Implementation of the regulation of marketing in the state. Provide infra-structural facilities for the marketing of notified agricultural produce. Provide grading of agricultural produce in the markets. To co-ordinate all the market committees for information services. Provide aid to financially weak or needy market committees in the form of loans and grants. Eliminate malpractices in the marketing system. Provides marketing related information to co-ordinate all the market committees in the state. Arrange or organise seminars, workshops or exhibitions on subjects relating to agricultural marketing and farmers training programme on various aspects of agricultural marketing. Some of the SAMBs are also promoting agro-business. Kisan Call Centers Provides expert advise to the farmers. These centers will operate through toll free telecom lines throughout the country. A country wide common four digit number 1551 has been allocated to these centers. (New Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Banglore, Chandigarh and Luknow) Agricultural Marketing-Web links Sl.No Particulars Website Address 1. District industries centre, Coimbatore http://diccoimbatore.com/functions.html 2. Tamilnadu industrial investment corporations http://tiic.org 3. Tamilnadu government http://www.tn.gov.in 4. Tamilnadu industrial development corporation http://www.tidco.com/goi.html 5. Industrial And Technical Consultancy Organization Of Tamilnadu Limited http://www.itcot.com 6. Tamilnadu Small Industries Development Corporation Limited http://www.sidco.tn.gov.in 7. Tamil Nadu Small Industries Corporation Ltd http://www.tansi.com 8. National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development http://www.nabard.org 9. Indian market data http://www.indiandata.com 10. Indian traders market http://www.trademart.in 11. Indian market http://dir.indiamart.com 12. Indian industries http://www.indianindustry.com 13. Indian traders http://www.tradeindia.com 14. Indian exporters http://www.exportersindia.com 15. Potentiality of district http://www.laghu-udyog.com 16. Agricultural rural industries in India http://ari.nic.in 17. Indian business http://business.mapsofindia.com 18. Agricultural marketing in India http://agmarknet.nic.in Top Marketing-DO'S and DONT'S DO'S Harvest the paddy at proper time of maturity. Dry paddy in sheds for optimum time period. Threshing and winnowing on cemented (Pucca) floor. Market the paddy/rice after grading to get higher return. Get the market information regularly from www.agmarknet.nic.in website, newspaper, T.V., concerned APMC offices etc. before marketing the produce. Avail the facility of futures trading and forward contracts to avoid price risk arising due to wide fluctuation in rice prices. Take the benefits of contract marketing to insure better price of the produce. Store the paddy/rice during post harvest period and sell it when prices are favourable. Avail the facility of Price Support Scheme during glut situation. Use effective, efficient and proper post harvest technology and processing techniques to avoid post harvest losses. Select the shortest and efficient marketing channel to get higher share in marketing. Select the cheapest and convenient mode of transportation from the available alternatives. Use proper packing for paddy/rice to protect the quality and quantity during transit and storage. Transport paddy/rice in bags which minimises grain losses. DONT 'S Delay in harvesting results in grain shedding and cracking of rice in the husk. Don’t do dexcessive drying of grains for preventing breakage of grains during milling. Don’t sell paddy/rice without grading, which fetches lower prices. Don’t market the produce without collecting information regarding price trend etc. Don’t sell the produce at fluctuating prices or in a glut situation. Don’t produce paddy without assessing and assuming its future demand. Don’t sell the paddy/rice during immediate post-harvest period, because usually the prices prevail low due to more arrivals. Don’t store paddy/rice at unscientific storage, which leads to qualitative and quantitative deterioration of grains. Don’t sell paddy/rice to local traders or itinerant merchant during glut situation. Don’t select marketing channel, which is longer, at the cost of producer’s share. Don’t select any mode of transport, which causes losses, and incur more expenses on transport. Don’t keep any lacunae in export procedure? Top Market Channels The following are the important marketing channels existing in the marketing of paddy/rice. Producer - Miller - Wholesaler - Retailer - Consumer Producer - Commission Agent - Miller - Wholesaler - Retailer - Consumer Producer - Itinerant Merchant - Miller - Wholesaler - Retailer - Consumer Producer - Wholesaler (Paddy) - Miller - Wholesaler(Rice) - Retailer - Consumer Producer - Miller - Retailer - Consumer Producer - Miller - Consumer. Producer - Procuring Agency (FCI/State Govt./Co-operatives) -Miller (FCI/Co operatives/Private) - Distributing Agency (State Govt.) - Fair price/Ration shop -Consumer. Criteria for selection of channels There are many marketing channels involved in marketing of paddy/rice. The following are the criteria for the selection of efficient marketing channels. The channel, which ensures reasonable return to producer, is considered to be good or efficient. Transportation cost in that channel. Commission charges and market margins received by the intermediaries, such as trader, commission agent, wholesaler and retailer. Financial resources. The shorter channel with minimum market cost should be selected. Top Export and Import Export Procedures: Registration with RBI and obtain RBI code number. {Apply in prescribed form (CNX) to obtain registration No. from RBI and the number is to be quoted on all export papers}. Importer – Exporter code (IEC) number to be obtained from Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). Register with Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) to obtain registration cum membership certificate. This is required to obtain permissible benefits from the Government. For Basmati rice export RCAC (Registration Cum Allocation Certificate) is issued by APEDA. (Non-Basmati rice can be freely exported; no RCAC is required, only exporter has to register with APEDA). For RCAC, exporter will be required to submit the export details and contract along with fee. RCAC is valid for 3 months, after that revalidation is required. RCAC is a statutory document and no duplicates can be issued after the misplacement of the original one. Exporter then procures their export orders. Quality of the produce is to be assessed by the inspecting agency and a certificate is issued to this effect. Produce is then shifted to port. Obtain marine insurance cover from any insurance company. Contact clearing and forwarding (C. & F.) agent for sorting the produce in godowns and to get the shipping bill for allowing shipment by the Custom Authority. Shipping bill is submitted by C. & F. Agent to custom house for verification and verified shipping bill is given to the shed superintendent to obtain carting order for export. After loading into ship, a mate’s receipt is issued by captain of ship to the superintendent of the port, who calculates port charges and collects the same from the C. & F. Agent. After the payment, C. & F. Agent takes mate’s receipt and requests port authority to prepare bill of loading to the respective exporter. Then C. & F. Agent sends the bill of loading to the respective exporter. After receiving the documents, exporter obtains a certificate of origin from chamber of commerce, stating that the goods are of Indian origin. Importer is informed by exporter regarding date of shipment, name ofvessel, bill of loading, customer‘s invoice, packing list etc. Exporter submits all documents to his bank for verification and bank verifies the papers against original letter of credit. After verification, bank sends documents to foreign importer to enable him to take delivery of produce. After receiving papers, importer makes payment through bank and sends the GR form to RBI, an evidence of realization of export proceeds. Exporter now applies for various benefits from duty drawback schemes. Exporters Sl.No Exporters 1. Kumaraguru Hitec Rice Industries Exporters of Boiled Rice, Parboiled Rice, Ponni Rice, Raw Rice, Steamed Rice and Polished Rice. Address: 116, Chennimalai Road, Kangayam, Erode India Website : http://www.kumaraguruhitecriceindustries.com 2. SVM Agro Foods Exporters of Ponni Rice, Idli Rice, Rosematta Rice, Red Rice, Raw Rice and Steam Rice, Indian Rice. Address: 39, Point Caree Street, Nellithope, Pondicherry India Website : http://www.nelmani.com 3. C L INTERNATIONAL Exporters of Basmati Rice, Non Basmati Rice. Address: 43/41 West Punjabi Bagh, New Delhi India Website : http://www.1121basmatirice.com 4. Boom Buying Pvt. Ltd. - India Exporters of rice. Address: E-986, C. R. Park., New Delhi India Website : http://www.boombuying.net 5. Jeni Rich India Agri Trading Company Exporters of De Oiled Rice Bran Address: 139, C.G.E. Colony, Tuticorin India Website : http://www.jenirich.com 6. GULAM & GULAM Exporters of Rice Address: BMC 3 & 4, P. D Mello RD, Opp. Ghadiyal Godi, Mumbai India Website : http://www.gulsafe.in 7. Hardcore Corporation Exporters of rice, basmati rice, non basmati rice, masoori rice. Address: Hardcore Corporation, Office No. 4, Chordiya Sankul, Nasik Road, Nasik- 422101 India Website : http://www.hcagroexports.com 8. Lakshmi Rice & Dall Mills Exporters of Basmati Rice, Non Basmati Rice. Address: 79, Grain Market, Ladwa 136132, India India Website : http://www.rice-exporter.com 9. Guru Nanak Rice Mills Exporters of Basmati Rice, Indian Basmati Rice, Long Grain Basmati Rice, Polished Rice, Rice Grain, Short Grain Basmati Rice, Medium Grain Basmati Rice, Dry Basmati Rice, Golden Basmati Rice, Aromatic Basmati Rice, Super Basmati Rice, White Basmati Rice, Cooking Rice and Plain Basmati Rice. Address: Village Chack Mohhamad, R. S. Pura, Jammu India Phone(s) : 91-192-3274143 Mobile : +91-9419101452 Fax(s) : 91-192-3274143 Website : http://www.halrice.net 10. Jothi exports and imports We Provide Agro Product Export Service. Business Type : Service Providers / Manufacturer / Wholesale Suppliers / Exporters / Importer Address: 305, Eswaran Vattam, Aneri, Rachamangalam, Vellore (DT), Tirupattur, Tamil Nadu India Website : http://www.jothiexports.in 11. K & B Exports Exporters of Basmati Rice Business Type : Exporters / Manufacturer / Wholesale Suppliers Address: No. 70, 7th Street, Annai Sivagami Nagar, Ennore, Chennai, Tamil Nadu India Website : http://www.kandbexports.com 12. F G H Enterprises Exporters of rice, basmati rice, long grain, par boiled rice, non basmati rice Business Type : Exporters Address: 9, First Block, Kannadasan Nagar, Chennai, Tamil Nadu India Website : http://www.fghenterprises.com 13. Caro Impex Exporters of basmati rice, 1121 basmati rice, long grain basmati rice, premium basmati rice, pusa basmati rice, super basmati rice. Business Type : Exporters / Manufacturer / Wholesale Suppliers Address: 1, Jaycee Flats , Balaji Nagar 1st Street, Nanganallur, Chennai, Tamil Nadu India Website : http://www.caroimpex.com 14. Sri Rajasthan Traders Exporters of basmati rice, pusa basmati rice, supreme quality basmati rice, indian rice. Business Type : Exporters / Wholesale Suppliers / Manufacturer Address: 10, Ayalur Muthia Mudali Street, Kondithope, Chennai, Tamil Nadu India Website : http://www.srirajasthantraders.com 15. Rasi Exporters of Rice. Business Type : Exporters Address: Gopal Nagar,Tirupur, Tamil Nadu India Top CODEX Alimentarius : Introduction : C O D E X A L I M E N T A R I U S is about safe, good food for everyone - everywhere. The C O D E X A L I M E N T A R I U S international food standards, guidelines and codes of practice contribute to the safety, quality and fairness of this international food trade. Consumers can trust the safety and quality of the food products they buy and importers can trust that the food they ordered will be in accordance with their specifications. The Codex Alimentarius Commission, established by FAO and WHO in 1963 develops harmonised international food standards, guidelines and codes of practice to protect the health of the consumers and ensure fair trade practices in the food trade. The Commission also promotes coordination of all food standards work undertaken by international governmental and non-governmental organizations. Codex standards are based on the best available science assisted by independent international risk assessment bodies or ad-hoc consultations organized by FAO and WHO. While being recommendations for voluntary application by members, Codex standards serve in many cases as a basis for national legislation. Codex process - in many cases assisted by the Codex Trust Fund, which strives to finance - and train - participants from such countries to enable efficient participation. Being an active member of Codex helps countries to compete in sophisticated world markets - and to improve food safety for their own population. At the same time exporters know what importers demand, and importers are protected from substandard shipments. International governmental and non-governmental organizations can become accredited Codex observers to provide expert information, advice and assistance to the Commission. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Nursery Management HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Types and Preparation Seed Rate, Quality Treatment Management strategies Nursery Management Types and Preparation 1. Wet nursery 2. Dapog or Mat Nursery 3. Dry nursery Wet Nursery Nursery area Select 20 cents (800 m2) of land area near to water source for transplanting one hectare in conventional method. Required nursery area for SRI is 100 m2 / ha (or) 2.5 cent / ha (or) 1cent / acre Nursery bed preparation The area should have an assured water supply and an efficient drainage system. It should be dry ploughed twice and apply 1tonne of FYM or compost to 20cents nursery. Later, it should be irrigated and allowed to be wet for another two days. Afterwards it should be puddled twice and the puddling may be repeated after a gap of one week. Basal application of DAP 40kg is recommended when the seedlings are to be pulled out in 20-25 days after sowing in less fertile nursery soils, and if not readily available, apply straight fertilizers 16kg of urea and 120kg of super phosphate. After levelling and final puddling, beds of convenient length (8-10 m) with width of 2.5 m are to be made, leaving 30 - 50 cm channels in between two beds. Sow the sprouted seeds uniformly on the seedbed. Top Dapog / Mat Nursery In Mat nursery seedlings are established in a layer of soil mix, arranged on a firm surface (Concrete floor/ polythene sheet/ seedling trays). Seedlings are ready for planting within 14-20 days after seeding (DAS). Nursery area Required nursery area is 100 m2 / ha (or) 2.5 cent / ha – 1cent / acre Nursery bed preparation Select a level area near the water source with efficient drainage system. The surface should be covered with banana leaves with the mid-rib removed or polyethylene sheets or any flexible material or cemented floors to prevent seedling roots from penetrating to the bottom soil layer. a. Preparation of soil mixture Four (4) m3 of soil mix is needed for each 100 m2 of nursery. Mix 70% soil + 20% well-decomposed pressmud / bio-gas slurry / FYM + 10% rice hull. Incorporate 1.5kg of powdered di-ammonium phosphate or 2kg 17-17-17 NPK fertilizer with the soil mixture. b. Filling the soil mixture Place a wooden frame of 0.5 m long, 1 m wide and 4 cm deep divided into 4 equal segments on the plastic sheet or banana leaves, fill the frame almost to the top with the soil mixture. c. Pre-germinating the seeds Soak the seeds for 24 hrs, drain and incubate the soaked seeds for 24 hrs, sow when the seeds sprout and radicle (seed root) grows to 2-3 mm long and cover them with dry soil to a thickness of 5mm. Top Dry Nursery Nursery area Area : 20cents This type of nursery is handy in times of delayed receipt of canal water or areas where sufficient water is not available. Nursery bed preparation The field is dry ploughed 5-6 times to acquire the fine tilth. Nursery area with sand and loamy soil status is more suitable for this type of nursery. Plots of 1 to 1.5 m bed width and channels may be formed. Length may be according to the slope and soil. After preparing the beds they are to be wetted and 1 tonne of FYM, 2.5 kg of P2O5 and 2 kg of potash need to be applied. Sowing may be dry seeding. Seeds may be covered with sand and finely powdered farm yard manure. Top Seed Rate, Quality and Treatment Seed Rate SRI method - 7-8 kg/ha (for all varieties and hybrids) Conventional method 30 kg for long duration varieties 40 kg for medium duration varieties 60 kg for short duration varieties 20 kg for Hybrids Top Seed Quality Healthy and vigorous seedlings are the bases for better crop growth and yield. Vigorous seedlings produced in the nursery will be able to withstand pest attack in the main field. Seeds intended for sowing should satisfy the following requirements : The seed should belong to the proper variety, which is proposed to be grown. The seed should be clean and free from mixtures of other seeds. The seed should be mature, well developed and plump in size. The seed should be free from obvious signs of age or bad storage The seed should have a high germinating capacity. Before sowing, the seed should be treated with fungicides which protects the seed against soil-born fungi and also give a boost to the seedlings. Upgradation of seed quality using salt solution Ten litre of water is taken in a plastic bucket of 15 litre capacity and a good quality fresh egg is dropped in the water and the egg sinks in water and reaches the bottom. The commercial grade common salt is added little by little and dissolved in water. As the density of salt solution increases, the egg raise up. The addition of salt (Sodium chloride) is stopped when the surface of the egg is visible above the solution. To this salt solution add 10kg of seeds. The seeds with low density float on the surface of the solution. The seeds floating on the surface of the solution are removed. The seeds sunk in the solution are washed for 2-3 times in water and then used. Top Seed Treatment Types Wet seed treatment Dry seed treatment Wet seed treatment : Treat the seeds in Carbendazim or Pyroquilon or Tricyclozole solution at 2 gm/lit of water for 1 kg of seeds for 10 hrs and drain excess water. This wet seed treatment gives protection to the seedlings up to 40 days from seedling disease such as blast. If the seeds are required for sowing immediately, keep the soaked seed in gunny bag in dark room for 24hrs for sprouting. Seed treatment with Pseudomonas fluorescens: Treat the seeds with Pseudomonas fluorescens 10gm/kg and soak in 1 lit of water overnight. Decant the excess water and allow the seeds to sprout for 24 hrs and then sow. Seed treatment with Azospirillum: Three packets (600 g/ha) of Azospirillum and 3 packets (600g/ha) of Phosphobacteria or 6 packets (1200g/ha) of Azophophirillum bioinoculants mixed with sufficient water. Biocontrol agents are compatible with biofertilizers, so it can be mixed together for seed soaking. Fungicides and biocontrol agents are incompatible. Dry seed treatment : Seed treatment with Fungicide: Mix the seeds with Captan or Thiram 24 hrs before sowing @ 4g/kg of seed. This dry seed treatment gives protection to the seedlings up to 40 days from seedling disease such as blast. Top Management strategies Nursery Management Timetable Top Days Operations 3-5 Weed management (if needed) 10-20 Pest / disease management practices 15 Apply DAP 40 kg, if DAP is not applied as basal dose 25-35 Pulling out the seedlings. Short duration (25 days). Medium duration (30 days). Long duration (35 days). SRI (14 Days). * Apply 20 kg gypsum a day before pulling out of seedling if soil is heavy clay Water Mangement Wet Method Drain the water 18 to 24hrs after sowing Allow enough water to saturate the soil from 3rd to 5th day. From 5th day onwards, increase the water depth to 1.5cm depending on the height of the seedlings. Thereafter maintain 2.5cm depth of water. Mat Nursery Method Water the nursery with rose can as and when needed (twice or thrice a day) to keep the soil moist. At 6 DAS, maintain thin film of water all round the seedling mats. Dry method Irrigation may be done to wet the soil to saturation. Top Nutrient Management Wet method If seedlings are to be pulled out after 25 days, application of DAP is to be done 10 days prior to pulling. 4kg of gypsum and 1kg of DAP per cent can be applied for clay soil on 10th day after sowing. Mat nursery method Though the temperature and water are adequate, the seedlings show yellowing (N deficiency). Sprinkle seedlings with 0.5% urea (1.5 kg Urea in 300 l water/100 m2). Top Weed Management Apply pre-emergence herbicides viz., Pretilachlor + safener @ 0.3kg/ha, on 3rd or 4th day after sowing to control weeds in the lowland nursery. Grown up weeds may be removed by manually. Top Pest Management Nursery pest : 1. Army worm (Spodoptera mauritia) 2. Thrips (Stenchaetothrips biformis) 3. Green leafhopper (Nephotettix nigropictus, N. cincticeps, N. virescens) 4. Caseworm (Nymphula depunctalis) Army worm (Spodoptera mauritia) Symptom of damage Larvae cut the seedlings in large scale Severe infestation - cattle grazing appearance to the field. They feed gregariously and march from field to field. Nature of damage Caterpillars march in large numbers in the evening hours and feed on the leaves of paddy seedlings till the morning and hide during daytime. They feed gregariously and after feeding the plants in one field march onto the next field. Under severe infestation crop gives the grazed appearance. Attacked plants are reduced to stumps. Nurseries situated in ill-drained marshy areas attacked earlier than dry ground. Damage is severe during July to September. Identification of insect pest Egg: Eggs are spherical and creamy in colour, which are laid in a group covered over with grey hairs. Larva: The caterpillars are light green with yellowish white lateral and dorsal stripes in the early stage and later become dark brown or grayish green in colour with a crescent (Semi-circular) shaped black spot on the side of each segment. Pupa: They pupate inside the soil in earthen cocoons. Pupa is dark brown and measures 16 -17mm long. Adult: The adult moth is medium sized, stout built dark brown with a conspicuous triangular black spot on the forewings. Hind wings are brownish white with thin black margins. Management strategies Cultural control Flood the nursery to expose the hiding larvae to the surface and thus they are picked up by birds. Apply kerosene to water to suffocate and kill the larvae. Allow the ducks into the field to feed the larvae. Chemical control: Drain the water from the nursery and spray chlorpyriphos 20 EC 80 ml Top Thrips (Stenchaetothrips biformis) Symptom of damage The crop is highly susceptible in the nursery stage for the first 23-25 days after transplanting/sowing. The tips of leaves get rolled longitudinally into needle like outgrowths and turn whitish. In severe cases, the lower leaves also turn yellowish. The infestation may be rated as mild, if there is less than three needle like leaves and as severe, if there are more than three outgrowths with the lower leaves also showing chlorosis and scorching. The infestation invariably disappears after sharp showers. Nature of damage: Both the adults and nymphs lacerate the tender leaves and suck up the plant sap. As a result fine yellowish lines or silvery streaks are seen on the leaves. Later, the leaves curl longitudinally and begin to dry from the tip downwards. In sever cases, the entire nursery may dry up and fail to produce seedling. Sometimes transplanted crop is also affected in the early stages. Life stages Egg: Eggs laid singly in the tissues of the tender leaves on the sides facing the stem. Eggs are hyaline and turn pale yellow as they mature. Nymph: Newly hatched nymphs are transparent but turn yellowish white after the first moult and possess darker legs, head and antennae. Pupa: Pupation takes place inside the rolled leaves and appendages and wings are clearly visible. Adult: Adult is 1mm long, dark brown to black in colour with fringed wings. Male is smaller, more slender than female. It reproduces partheno-genetically since males are seldom seen in the population. Management strategies Cultural control Submerge infested crops intermittently for 1-2 days. Drag a wet cloth on the seedlings. Chemical control Phosphamidon 40SL 50ml Biological control Predatory thrips, coccinellid beetles, anthocorid bugs, and staphylinid beetles are biological control agents that feed on both the larvae and adults. Top Green leafhopper (Nephotettix nigropictus, N. cincticeps, N. virescens) Symptom of damage Yellowing of leaves from tip to downwards. Vector for the diseases viz., Rice tungro virus, rice yellow & transitory yellowing. Nature of damage Both nymphs and adults suck the plant sap from the leaf and leaf sheath. Mild infestation reduces the vigour of the plant and the number of reproductive tillers. Heavy infestation causes withering and complete drying of the crop. Plants are predisposed to fungal and bacterial infection through feeding and ovipositional punctures. . It also transmits plant diseases such as dwarf, transitory yellowing, yellow dwarf and rice tungro virus (Tungro is transmitted during short feeding period). Life stages Egg: Greenish transparent eggs are deposited in the midrib of leaf blade or sheath of rice or green grass. They are laid in batches of 10 to 15 arranged in a single row. Nymph: The nymphs are soft bodied, yellow white in colour. Gradually the colour changes to green with five nymphal instars and become adults in 18-20 days. Adult: Adults are 3-5 mm long, bright green with variable black markings, wedge shaped with a characteristic diagonal movement. Male insect has a black spot in middle of the forewings that is absent in females. The insect is active during July to September. Longevity: Females live for 50-55 days. Management strategies : Cultural control Use resistant varieties like IR 50, CR 1009, Co 46, PTB 2 and PTB 18. Nursery should not be raised near the lamp posts. Apply neem cake @ 12.5 Kg/20 cent nursery as basal dose. Chemical control Spray anyone of the following herbicide: Carbofuran 3 G 3.5 kg (or) Phorate 10 G 1.0 kg (or) Quinalphos 5 G 2.0 kg Top Rice Caseworm (Case Worm, Nymphula depunctalis (Guen.), Pyraustidae, Lepidoptera)Symptom of damage Caterpillars feed on green tissues of the leaves and leave become whitish papery. Tubular cases around the tillers by cutting the apical portion of leaves. Floating of tubular cases on the water. Nature of damage The caterpillar cuts a piece of leaf roll it longitudinally into a tubular structure and remains inside. It feeds by scraping the green tissue of the leaf. The cases often float in the water. Identification of insect pest Egg: Eggs are light yellow, disc like, smooth and irregular in shape. They are laid on the underside of the leaves floating on the water. Larva: Pale translucent green with orange head. It has filamentous gills on the sides of the body that helps to lead a semi aquatic life Pupa: It pupates inside the leaf case. Fresh pupae are milky white, which gradually turn to light yellow. Adult: Moth is delicate white moth with pale brown wavy markings. The adult is a small delicate moth having white wings speckled with pale brown wavy markings. Females are larger than males. Egg laying takes place in the night. Management strategies Cultural control Mix 250 ml of kerosene to the standing water Dislodge the cases by passing a rope and drain water Collect the cases and destroy Chemical control Spray any one of the following herbicide : Quinalphos 25 EC 80 ml. Top Diseases Mangement Nursery Diseases : Blast - Pyricularia oryzea Brown spot - Drechslera oryzae (Cochliobolus miyabean) Rice Tungro virus disease (i)Rice tungro Bacilliform virus (ii) Rice tungro Spherical virus Rice blast (Pyricularia oryzea) Symptom of damage Disease can infect paddy at all growth stages and all aerial parts of plant (Leaf, neck and node). Small specks originate on leaves - subsequently enlarge into spindle shaped spots(0.5 to 1.5cm length, 0.3 to 0.5cm width) with ashy center. Several spots coalesce and form big irregular patches Management Strategies Avoid excess N - fertilizer application Use of tolerant varieties ( Palghuna, Swarnamukhi, Swathi, Prabhat, Co 47, IR - 64, IR - 36, Jaya) Dry seed treatment with Pseudomonas fluorescens talc formulation @10g/kg of seed. Stagnate water to a depth of 2.5 cm in the nursery. Sprinkle 2.5 kg of P. fluorescens (talc) and mix with stagnated water. Soak the root system of seedlings for 30 min and transplant. Seed treatment at 2.0 g/kg seed with Captan or Carbendazim or Thiram or Tricyclazole. Spraying of Tricyclazole at 1g/lit of water or Edifenphos at 1 ml/lit of water or Carbendazim at 1.0 gm/lit. Top Brown Spot : Helminthosporium oryzae Also called as sesame leaf spot (or) Helminthosporiose (or ) fungal blight Symptoms Occur in nursery as well as main field Causes blight of seedlings Isolated brown, round to oval (resemble sesame seed) spots and coalesce to form large patches. 50% yield reduction in severe cases Management Use of tolerant varieties (Co 20, IR – 24 and Padma) and disease free seeds. Seed soak / treatment with Captan or Thiram at 2.0g /kg of seed. Spray Mancozeb (2.0g/lit) Top Rice Tungro virus disease (i)Rice tungro Bacilliform virus (ii) Rice tungro Spherical virus Vector : Green leaf hopper Symptoms Plants affected by tungro exhibit stunting and reduced tillering. Their leaves become yellow or orange-yellow, may also have rust-colored spots. Discoloration begins from leaf tip and extends down to the blade or the lower leaf portion Management Strategies Set up light traps to monitoring and attract vectors. Leaf yellowing can be minimized by spraying 2% urea mixed with Mancozeb at 2.5 gm/lit. Grow tolerant varieties are Co 45, Co 48, Surekha, Vikramarya, Bharani, IR 36. In nursery when virus infection is low, apply Carbofuran granules @ 1 kg a.i./ha to control vector population. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Nutrient Management HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Importance of Nutrients Nutritional Disorders Manuring Fertilizer Requirement INM Nutrient Management Importance of Nutrients Paddy requires the following essential nutrients for its normal development: Carbon Nitrogen Calcium Hydrogen Phosphorus Magnesium Oxygen Potassium Sulphur Iron Zinc Chlorine Manganese Boron Copper Molybdenum Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium are known as primary plant nutrients; calcium, magnesium and sulphur, as secondary nutrients; iron manganese, copper, zinc, boron, molybdenum and chlorine as trace elements or micro-nutrients. The primary and secondary nutrient elements are known as major elements. This classification is based on their relative abundance, and not on their relative importance. The micronutrients are required in small quantities, but they are important as the major elements in plant nutrition. Nitrogen Nitrogen, the most important nutrient for rice, is universally limiting the rice productivity. Nitrogen encourages the vegetative development of plants by imparting a healthy green color to the leaves. It seems that majority of Indica varieties are adapted to relatively low levels of nitrogen in the region of 25 kg N/ha. Rice plant depends mainly for its nitrogen upon the decomposition of organic matter under anaerobic conditions and in the early stages of growth takes up nitrogen in the form of ammonia which is the stable form of nitrogen in submerged soils. There are two stages in the growth of rice crop when nitrogen is most needed; early vegetative and panicle initiation stages. Fertilizing the crop during early vegetative growth promotes tillering leading to higher yield. Application at panicle initiation or early booting stage will help the plant produce more and heavier grains per panicle. Phosphorus Phosphorus is particularly important in early growth stages. It is mobile within the plant and promotes root development (Particularly the development of fibrous roots),tillering and early flowering. Addition of mineral P fertilizer is required when the rice plants root system is not yet fully developed and the native soil P supply is inadequate. Phosphorus is remobilized within the plant during later growth stages if sufficient P has been absorbed during early growth. It also increases resistance to disease and strengthens the stems of cereal plants, thus reducing their tendency to lodge. It offsets the harmful effects of excess nitrogen in the plant. Potassium Potassium enhances the ability of the plants to resist diseases, insect attacks, cold and other adverse conditions. It plays an essential part in the formation of starch and in the production and translocation of sugars, and is thus of special value to carbohydrate-rich crops. Involves in working of enzymes. Helps in production and movement of photosynthates to sink. Helps in proper uptake of other nutrients. Influences tillering or branching of plant and size and weight of grain. Over 80 per cent of the absorbed potassium by the plant is found in straw. Need for potassium is most likely to occur on sandy soils. Calcium Calcium combines with pectin in the plant to form calcium pectate, which is an essential constituent of the cell-wall. It also promotes the activity of soil bacteria concerned with the fixation of free nitrogen or the formation of nitrates from organic forms of nitrogen. Furthermore, it is necessary for the development of a good root system. Magnesium Magnesium is an essential constituent of chlorophyll. It is usually needed by plant in relatively small quantities. Hence its deficiency in the soil is experienced later than that of potassium. Sulphur It involve in chlorophyll production, protein synthesis and plant function and structure. Sulphur forms an important constituent of straw and plant stalks. Iron Iron is necessary for the synthesis of chlorophyll. Mainly a problem in upland soils. Zinc Essential for the transformation of carbohydrates. Regulates consumption of sugars. The function of zinc in plants is as a metal activator of enzymes. Deficiency of zinc in lowland rice occurs in near neural to alkaline soils, particularly in calcareous soils. Availability of both soil and applied zinc is higher in upland soil than in submerged soil. Soil submergence causes decrease in zinc concentration in the soil solution. Rice crop removes 30-40 g Zn per tonne of grain. Boron Boron facilitates the translocation of sugars by forming sugar borate complex. It involves in cell differentiation and development since boron is essential for DNA synthesis. Also involves in fertilization, hormone metabolism etc. Copper It is an important constituent of plastocyanin (copper containing protein). It is also a constituent of several oxidizing enzymes. Important for reproductive growth. Aids in root metabolism and helps in the utilization of proteins. Manganese It is an activator of nitrite reductase and many respiratory enzymes. It is necessary for the evolution of oxygen (photolysis) during photosynthesis. Functions with enzyme systems involved in breakdown of carbohydrates, and nitrogen metabolism. Soil is a source of manganese. Silicon It is an important element for improving plant health and disease resistance. It has the potential to significantly decrease the susceptibility of certain plants to both biotic and abiotic diseases. Beneficial for the growth of paddy. An adequate supply of silica is essential for paddy to give a good yield by increasing the strength and rigidity of cells. Plant roots take up their silica as silicic acid. It is possible that the amount taken up by paddy is equal to the amount of silicic acid present in the water the roots absorb, so that the greater the amount of water transpired, the greater their uptake of silica. Top Nutritional Disorders Nutrient Deficiencies and Toxicities Nitrogen Deficiency Symptoms Stunted growth and yellowish plants. Older leaves of whole plants are yellowish green. Old leaves sometimes all leaves become light green. Deficiency symptoms first appear at the tip and progress along the midrib until the entire leaf is dead. Tips become chlorotic. Leaves narrow, short, erect and lemon-yellowish green. Corrective measures Do not apply large amounts of N to less responsive varieties Choose suitable plant spacing for each cultivar. Adjust the number of splits and timing of N applications according to the crop establishment method. Keep the field flooded to prevent denitrification but avoid N losses from water runoff over bunds immediately after fertilizer application. Soil application of 25 % excess of recommended N. Foliar application of Urea 1% at weekly interval till the symptoms disappear N management in paddy with leaf colour chart (LCC). Yellowing of leaves in paddy indicates the deficiency of nitrogen, but it is difficult to decide the quantity of nitrogen to be applied based on the extent of yellowing. The actual requirement of nitrogen by the crop can be correctly assessed by leaf colour chart. The leaf colour chart consists of 6 -7 green strips, 1st strip with light green colour and the last strip (6th or 7th) with dark green colour, and in between strips (2nd to 5th) are with varying intensity of green colour. Use of leaf colour chart Select fully opened disease free new leaf i.e. third leaf from the top as index leaf in paddy plant for assessing the leaf colour and ten leaves to be selected from ten plants in the field. Match the colour of the selected leaves by keeping the middle of the leaves on the colour strips of leaf colour chart and assess the colour intensity ( LCC value) during morning hours (8-10 am). Assess the intensity of leaf colour each time at a particular time by a particular individual. Take average of two if the leaf colour matches between two colour strips of the chart. Commence the assessment of the leaf colour with LCC at 14 DAT in transplanted rice or 21 DAS in direct seeded rice and continue up to flower initiation/heading at an interval of 7-10 days. Critical LCC value varies with the type of paddy genotypes. LCC critical value is 3.0 in low N response cultures. In Tamilnadu LCC critical value is 3.0 in low N response cultures like White Ponni and 4.0 in other cultivars and hybrids. Assess the average LCC values of 10 leaf samples. When the average LCC value of ten leaves or when the LCC values of five or more leaves found below the critical LCC limit fixed for that genotype, then top dress nitrogen depending on the crop growth and stage. If six or more leaves read below the specified threshold value, N can be applied @ 35 kg N/ha in dry season and 30 kg N/ha in wet season per application per ha. If the value is above the threshold value, there is no need for top dressing during that week. Nitrogen toxicity symptoms: Plants are dark green in colour Abundant foliage Restricted root system Flowering and seed setting may be retarded. Nitrogen sources Farmyard manure, Green manures, Biofertilizers (Rhizobium, AzollaAzospirillum, Azotobacter) Castor cake, Neem cake, Urea, Diammonium phosphate, Ammonium nitrate, Ammonium sulphate. Phosphorus Deficiency symptoms Plants stunted with reduced tillering. Leaves narrow, short, very erect ‘dirty’ dark green. Older leaves turn brownish red and purple colors develop in leaves. Stems thin and spindly. Poor tillering/branching. Poor root growth. Corrective measures Application of phosphobacteria to the soil as seed coating or as seedling dip. Application on P fertilizer 15-30 kg P/ha. Rock phosphate broadcast before flooding when soil pH is low. Phosphorus sources: Farmyard manure, Biofertilizers (Phosphate solubilizers) Castor cake, Neem cake,Super phosphate (single),Super phosphate (Double),Super phosphate (Triple), Basic slag, Mussori, Diammonium phosphate (SPIC), Ammonium phosphate (Gromor) Phosphorus toxicity (Injury due to excess P application) 1. Fixed in soil – not available to plants 2. Leads to Zinc deficiency Potassium Deficiency symptoms Dark green plants with yellowish. Brown leaf margins and brown necrotic spots on the tips of older leaves. Rusty brown spots on the panicles and poor grain formation. Weak stem leads to lodging. Corrective measures: Soil application of 25% excess of recommended K. Foliar application of 1% KCL Spread and incorporate the straw evenly over the field before burning. Ash from burnt straw heaps should also be spread over the field. Potassium sources Farmyard manure, Castor cake, Neem cake, Muriate of potash (KCl), Potassium sulphate Injury due to excess K application Excess of this element tends to delay maturity Leads to calcium magnesium and iron deficiencies. Calcium Deficiency symptoms White or bleached, rolled, and curled tips of youngest leaves. Necrosis along the lateral margins of leaves. Old leaves turn brown and die. Stunting and death of growing points Corrective measures: Apply farmyard manure or straw (incorporated or burned) to balance Ca removal in soils containing small concentrations of Calcium Fertilizers. Apply CaCl2 or Ca containing foliar sprays for rapid treatment of severe Ca deficiency. Apply gypsum in Ca deficient high pH soils,e.g., on sodic & high K soils. Apply lime on acid soils to raise pH and Ca availability. Apply pyrites to mitigate the effects of NaHCO3- rich water on Ca uptake. Calcium sources: Farmyard manure, Calcium chloride. Gypsum, dolomite, lime, pyrites, single superphosphate or triple superphosphate. Magnesium Deficiency symptoms: Leaf chlorotic with white tips. Pale-colored plants with orange-yellow interveinal chlorosis on older leaves and later on younger leaves. Chlorosis progresses to yellowing and finally necrosis in older leaves in severe cases wavy and droopy leaves. Reduced number of spikelets and grain quality. Corrective measures: Rapid correction of Mg deficiency symptoms is achieved by applying a soluble Mg source such as kieserite or Mg chloride. Foliar application of liquid fertilizers containing Mg (e.g.,Mgcl 22%) Magnesium sources: Farmyard manure, Magnesium chloride, dolomite. Sulphur Deficiency symptoms: Yellowing or pale green whole plant. Young leaves chlorotic or light green colored with the tips becoming necrotic. Lower leaves not showing necrosis. Leaves pale yellow. Effect on yield is more pronounced when S deficiency occurs during vegetative growth. Corrective measures: Incorporate straw instead of completely removing or burning it. About 40-60% of the S contained in straw is lost during burning. Carry out dry tillage after harvesting, to increase the rate of sulfide oxidation during the follow period. Applying 15-20 kg S ha-1 gives a residual effect that can supply the S needed for two subsequent rice crops. Sulphur sources: Ammonium sulfate, Single superphosphate, Potassium sulfate, gypsum and S-coated urea. Iron Deficiency symptoms: Interveinal yellowing. Chlorosis of whole leaves and emerging leaves. Entire plants becomes chlorotic. Corrective measures: Apply solid FeSO4 (30 kg Fe/ha) next to rice rows or broadcast. Foliar applications of FeSO4 (2-3% solution) 2-3 applications at 2 week intervals. Use acidifying fertilizers (e.g., ammonium sulfate instead of urea) on high-pH soils. Grow tolerant cultivars for low soil Fe availability. Iron sources: Soluble ferrous sulfate (20-33% Fe), ferrous ammonium sulfate (14% Fe), and iron chelates (5 to 14% Fe). Zinc Deficiency symptoms: Dusty brown spots on upper leaves. Stunted growth of plants. Decreases tillering and increase spikelet sterility. Leaf base of younger leaves become chlorotic brown and blotches/streaks on lower leaves. Corrective measures: Broadcast ZnSO4 in nursery seedbed. Dip seedlings or presoak seeds in 2-4% ZnO suspension. It is enough to apply 12.5 kg zinc sulphate /ha, if green manure (6.25 t/ha) or enriched FYM, is applied. Apply 25 kg of zinc sulphate with 50 kg sand before transplanting. Apply 5-10 kg Zn ha-1 as Zn sulfate, apply 0.5 – 1.5 % ZnSO4/ha as a foliar spray at tillering (25-30 DAT), 2-3 repeated applications at intervals of 10-14 days. Zn chelates (e.g., Zn-EDTA) can be used for foliar application. Zinc sources: Zinc sulfate, Zinc carbonate, Zinc chloride, Zinc chelate, Zinc oxide. Zinc toxicity symptoms: Excess zinc commonly produces iron chlorosis in plants. Aluminium Toxicity symptoms: Orange-yellow interveinal chlorosis on leaves followed by leaf tip death and leaf margin scorch. Necrosis of chlorotic areas during severe Al toxicity. Stunted and deformed roots in susceptible cultivars. Corrective measures: Delay planting until pH has increased sufficiently after flooding (to immobilize Al). Plant Al-tolerant cultivars (IR43, CO 37, and Basmati 370) which accumulate less Al in their foliage and take up and use Ca and P efficiently in the presence of Al. Apply 1-3 t lime/ha to raise pH. Boron Deficiency symptoms: White and rolled leaf tips of young leaves. Reduction in plant height. Death of growing points, but new tillers continue to emerge during severe deficiency. Plants unable to produce panicles if affected by B deficiency. Corrective measure: Avoid excessive leaching (percolation). Apply B in soluble forms (borax) for rapid treatment of B deficiency (0.5-3 kg B/ ha), broadcast and incorporated before planting, top dressed or as foliar spray during vegetative rice growth. Boron sources: Anhydrous borax, Fertilizer borate, borax. Toxicity symptoms: Chlorosis of tips and margins of older leaves as initial symptoms. Dark brown elliptical spots on discolored areas two to three weeks later followed by browning and drying up. Necrotic spots prominent at panicle initiation. Corrective measures: Plant B-toxicity tolerant varieties (e.g., IR42, IR46, IR48, and IR 54). Use surface water with a low B content for irrigation. Plough when the soil is dry so that B accumulates in the topsoil. Leach with water containing a small amount of B. Copper Deficiency symptoms: Leaves develop chlorotic streaks on either side of the midrib. Dark brown necrotic lesions on leaf tips, Leaves often bluish green and chlorotic near the leaf tip. New leaves do not unroll and the distal parts of leaves maintain a needle like appearance. Reduced tillering and increased spikelet sterility Corrective measures: Dip seedling roots in 1% CuSO4 suspensions for 1 hr before transplanting. Avoid overliming of acid soils because it may reduce Cu uptake. On Cu-deficient soils, apply CuO or CuSO4(5-10 kg Cu/ha at 5-year intervals) for long-term maintenance of available soil Cu (broadcast and incorporate in soil). Copper sources: Cupric sulfate, Cu oxide Manganese Deficiency symptoms: Pale greyish green interveinal chlorosis spreads from the tip to the leaf base. Necrotic brown spots develop later and leaf becomes dark brown. Newly emerging leaves short, narrow and light green. Deficient plants shorter, with fewer leaves, weigh less, and smaller root system at tillering. Corrective measures: Apply MnSO4 or finely ground MnO (5-20 kg Mn/ha) in bunds along rice rows. Apply foliar MnSO4 for rapid treatment of Mn deficiency(1-5 kg Mn/ha in about 200 L water/ha). Use acid-forming fertilizers, e.g., ammonia sulfate [(NH4)2SO4] instead of urea. Manganese sources: Mn sulfate, Mn chloride Toxicity symptoms: Yellowish brown spots between leaf veins, extending to the whole interveinal area. Brown spots on veins of lower leaf blades and leaf sheaths. Leaf tips dry out eight weeks after planting. Chlorosis of younger (upper) leaves, with symptoms similar to those of Fe chlorosis. Stunted plants, reduced tillering and sterility results in reduced grain yield. Corrective measures: Coat seeds with oxidants (e.g., Ca peroxide) to improve germination and seedling emergence by increasing the supply of O2. Apply lime on acid soils to reduce the concentration of active Mn. Mn uptake is reduced in the presence of ammonia. Silicon Deficiency symptoms: Leaves and culms become soft and droopy thus increasing mutual shading. Reduces photosynthetic activity. Severe Si deficiency reduces the number of panicles m2 and the number of filled spikelets per panicle. Si-deficient plants are particularly susceptible to lodging. Corrective measures: For more rapid correction of Si deficiency, granular silicate fertilizers should be applied: Calcium silicate 120-200 kg/ha , Potassium silicate 40-60 kg/ha. In the long term, Si deficiency is prevented by not removing the straw from the field following harvest. Recycle rice straw (5-6% Si) and rice husks (10% Si). Avoid applying excessive amounts of N fertilizer, which increases yield and total uptake of N and Si, but also decreases the Si concentration in straw because of excessive biomass growth. Silicon sources: Calcium silicate, potassium silicate, blast furnace slag. Sodium Toxicity symptoms: Leaves short, narrow and brittle. Leaves initially show dark green colour, later become bleached and turn yellow to pink and necrotic Corrective measures: Soil application of gypsum at 100-200 kg/ha and leach with water. Sulphur Toxicity symptoms: Interveinal chlorosis of emerging leaves. Coarse, sparse, dark brown to black roots. Fresh uprooted rice has poorly developed root systems with many black roots. Increased occurrence of diseases. Corrective measures: Apply K, P, and Mg fertilizers. Apply Fe (salts, oxides) on low-Fe soils to increase immobilization of H2S as FeS. Avoid continuous flooding and use intermittent irrigation in soils that contain large concentrations of S. Carry out dry tillage after harvest to increase S and Fe oxidation during the fallow period. Top Organic Manures (1) Green Manuring (2) Biofertilizer (3) Organic Manuring Practices Green Manuring Green Manure Green Manures Seed rate (kg/ha) Green biomass (t/ha) Sithagathi (Sesbania speciosa) 30 – 40 15-18 Dhaincha (Sesbania aculeata) 50 25 Manila Agathi - Sesbania rostrata 40 20 Sunnhemp (Crotalaria juncea) 25-35 13-15 Wild Indigo (Tephrosia purpurea) 15-20 6-7 Green Leaf Manures Glyricidia (Glyricidia maculata Syn. G.sepium) Pungam (Derris indica Syn. Pongamia glabra) Ipomoea cornea Neem (Azadirachta indica) Sesbania grandiflora Advantages of green Manuring Green manuring builds up soil structure and improves tilth. Improves aeration in rice soils by stimulating activities of surface film of algae and bacteria. Harbour N fixing bacteria, rhizobia in root nodules and fix atmospheric N (60 to 100 kg N/ha). Promotes formation of crumbs in heavy soils leading to aeration and drainage. Vitamin and protein content of rice increased. Biofertilizer Biofertilizers are ready to use live formulates of such beneficial microorganisms which on application to seed, root or soil mobilize the availability of nutrients by their biological activity in particular, and help to build up the micro-flora and in turn the soil health in general. Bio-fertilizers are eco friendly and are environmentally safe. They form not only part of integrated nutrients but are of low cost. The bio-fertilizers used for rice crop are azolla, Blue green algae, Azotobacter, Azospirillum, Phosphobacteria, Phosphate solubilisers and Mycorhiza. Azolla Azolla is a fresh water fern. 0.5 -1 t of biomass of azolla /ha is used for paddy in two ways either as green manure before transplanting, or as dual crop in 7 DAT. It releases the nitrogen to the rice crop only after complete decomposition (8-10 days). It also enhances the availability of phosphorus than chemical fertilizer on 40th day besides improving the C:N ratio of soils. Blue green algae These are photosynthetic prokaryotic microorganisms capable of fixing atmospheric nitrogen. It can be applied to rice crop at 10 kg/ha on 10 DAT. ‘Algalisation’ increases the nitrogen content of both grain and straw besides increasing soil fertility. It can fix 20-30 kg N/ha. Azotobacter Azotobacter is a free living nitrogen fixing bacteria. It can be applied to rice through seed or seedling or soil. Azospirillium Inoculation with Azospirillum promotes early tillering and also the growth of rice and significantly increases filling rate of grain and the grain weight per plant at harvest. Phosphobacteria A large proportion of the phosphatic fertilizer applied to soil is fixed by conversion into insoluble forms of phosphorus which is not available to plants. Only 20-25 per cent of phosphorous is available to plants. This insoluble and unavailable phosphorus remains unutilized by plants in soil. The bacteria, which dissolve the undissolved form of phosphorus is called 'Phosphobacteria'. The organic acids produced by phosphobacteria dissolve the insoluble (fixed) form of phosphorous in soil and make it available to plants. Azospirillium,Phosphobacteria,Azotobacter Number of packets/hectare is Method of application Number of Packets/ha Seed treatment 5 Nursery application 10 Seedling dip 5 Main field (Soil application) 10 Total 30 Mycorrhiza It occurs naturally in low land and upland rice. It mobilizes the phosphorus required by rice. It also provides nutrients such as iron, zinc, copper, manganese etc. Endomycorrhiza are obligate symbionts and can be maintained only on live plants inoculated with spores of a species and collecting the pieces of roots with soil. The root biomass heavily infected by a specific mycorrhizal fungus serves as the inoculum for subsequent plots. Phosphate Solubilisers This type of biofertilizers solubilises phosphates in the soil and render them in available form for low land and upland rice. Bacteria like Bacillus megatherium var phosphaticum, Bacillus polymixa, Pseudomonas fluorscens, Pseudomonas striata fungi like Pencillium digitatum, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus awamori were found to have a strong phosphate dissolving ability. For semi-dry rice, hardened seeds are treated with Pseudomonas fluorscens 10g/kg of seed. Methods of application of Biofertilizer Bacterial biofertilizers are supplied as carrier based inoculants. Peat or lignite is used as carrier material. Carrier based bacterial inoculants are applied by the following methods. Seed treatment. Seedling root dip and Main field application Seed Treatment One package of the inoculant is mixed with 200ml of rice kanji to make slurry. The seeds required for an acre are mixed in the slurry so as to have a uniform coating of the inoculant over the seeds and then shade dried for 30 minutes. The shade dried seeds should be sown within 24 hours. One packet of the inoculant (200g) is sufficient to treat 10 kg of seeds. Seedling Root Dip This method is used for transplanted crops. Two packets of the inoculant is mixed in 40 litres of water. The root portion of the seedlings required for an acre is dipped in the mixture for 5 to 10 minutes and then transplanted. Main field Preparation Four packets of the inoculant is mixed with 20 kgs of dried powdered farm yard manure and broadcast in one acre of main field just before transplanting. Combained application of Bacterial Biofertilizers Phosphobacteria can be mixed with Azospirillum. The inoculants should be mixed in equal quantities and applied as mentioned above. Organic Manuring practices TamilNadu In nursery, apply 1 tonne of fully decomposed FYM or compost to 20 cents nursery and spread the manure uniformly on dry soil. In main field, apply 12.5 t of FYM or compost or green leaf manure @ 6.25 t/ha. If green manure is raised @ 20 kg /ha in situ, incorporate it to a depth of 15 cm using a green manure trampler or tractor. In the place of green manure, press-mud / composted coir-pith can also be used. Kerala Apply organic manure in the form of farmyard manure or compost or green leaf @ of 5 t/ha and incorporate into the soil while ploughing. Cowpea may be raised as an intercrop in dry seeded low land (semi-dry) rice by sowing 12.5 kg seed/ha along with rice to serve as a source of green manure. When the rice field gets submerged with the onset of southwest monsoon, cowpea at the age of about six weeks and at active vegetative stage decays and gets self-incorporated in the soil adding substantial quantity of green manure. Such a system of concurrent growing of cowpea also reduces weed pressure in semi-dry rice. Karnataka Drill sown paddy : Sow sunhemp green manure seeds @10kg/ha mixed with paddy seeds. Carry out hodta operation (Planking) in standing water after 40 DAS for in situ incorporation of sunhemp in the soil which will decompose easily and early and add to organic matter to the soil maintaining the soil fertility. (OR) Ex situ incorporation of green leaf manuring of Eupatorium/parthenium/cassia and other weeds green material @ 5 t/ha in between the two paddy rows by carrying out hodta operation. Provides only 50% nutrients to maintain good yield. Transplanted paddy: Sow green manure seeds of Sesbania rostrata (@ 25kg/ha) along with the application of entire P2O5 recommended for paddy, eight weeks before transplanting of paddy, then in situ incorporate the green manure crop by carrying out hodta operation ( Planking) seven weeks after sowing. Transplant paddy seedlings after one week of incorporation along with the application of 50% recommended nitrogen for paddy. Top Fertilizer Requirements (1) Fertilizer Requirements These products are quick acting, even in cool soils and they are inexpensive. They are the most effective means of increasing crop production and supplement nutrient supply in the soil, especially to correct yield-limiting factors. (1) a)Tamil Nadu Transplanted Puddled Low Land Rice Blanket recommendation (Kg/ha) – 150:50:50 In nursery, before the last puddling apply basal application of DAP (40 kg) is recommended when the seedlings are to be pulled out in 20-25 days after sowing. For clay soils where root snapping is a problem, 4kg of Gypsum and 1 kg of DAP per cent can be applied at 10 DAS. Direct wet seeded puddled lowland rice, Dry seeded rainfed un-puddled lowland rice and Rainfed upland rice Blanket recommendation (Kg/ha) – 50:25:25 Semidry System-Dry seeded rice in un-puddled low land Blanket recommendation (Kg/ha) –:75:25:37.5 (b) Kerala Stages of application: 1. For short duration varieties, N is applied in three equal splits viz., basal, active tillering, and active panicle initiation stages. The recommended P is fully applied as basal. K is applied in two equal splits viz., basal and active panicle initiation stages. 2. For medium and long duration varieties, N are applied in two equal splits viz., basal and active panicle initiation stages. The recommended P is fully applied as basal. K is applied in two equal splits viz., basal and active panicle initiation stages. 3. For direct seeded crop, the basal application should be done one week after sowing. (c) Karnataka Zone 1 - North Eastern Transition Zone Zone 2 - North Eastern Dry Zone Zone 3 - Northern Dry Zone Zone 4 - Central Dry Zone Zone 5 - Eastern Dry Zone Zone 6 - Southern dry Zone Zone 7- Southern Transition Zone Zone 8 - Northern Transition Zone Zone 9 - Hill Zone Zone 10 - Coastal Zone (2) Method of Fertilizer application Soil application Basal application Apply 25 % recommended dose of N and K as basal. P may be applied fully as basal and incorporated. Apply 25 kg of zinc sulphate mixed with 50 kg dry sand just before transplanting. Apply 500 kg of gypsum/ha (as source of Ca and S nutrients) at last ploughing. Top dressing Apply 25 % recommended dose of N and K each as top dressing at active tillering, panicle initiation and heading stages. Foliar Nutrition in paddy In recent year’s soluble fertilizers otherwise known as foliar fertilizers like Polyfeed and Multi 'K' were introduced in rice growing states. Polyfeed contains 19: 19: 19 NPK with 6 micro-nutrients like iron, manganese, boron, zinc, copper and molybdenum, while multi K contains 13: 0: 46 NPK. These fertilizers provide nutrients to the plant by foliar application as these fertilizers are completely soluble in water. These fertilizers have no other impurities like sodium and chloride and they are 100 % nutrients and these nutrients are easily absorbed through the leaves. In certain occasions like prolonged drought, there is no scope to apply fertilizers to the soil for want of moisture. Like wise in flooded conditions due to continuous rains fertilizers could not be applied to the soil. In such special circumstances these soluble fertilizers are must to protect the crop against hunger and this forms a compulsory act of crisis management. And the foliar application of Speciality fertilizers plays an important role in supplying the nutrients at critical stages of flowering and grain formation. Under special conditions of drought and waterlogging, apply N as foliar spray. Urea may be applied as a low volume spray at 15% concentration using power sprayer or at 5% concentration using a high volume sprayer, the quantity applied in one application being limited to 15 kg/ha. Foliar spray of Urea (10 g/lit) + DAP (20 g/lit) + KCl (10 g/lit) at PI and 10 days later for all varieties. If deficiency symptom appears, foliar application of 0.5% Zinc sulphate + 1.0% urea can be given at 15 days interval until the Zn deficiency symptoms disappear. Growth Regulators Foliar spray of Brassinosteriods 0.3 ppm at Panicle Initiation and Flowering stages increased the grain yield. For increasing the rooting under broadcast method of planting, soaking roots in 25 ppm Induction of better rooting for early establishment in rice, root dipping for 16 hours in thiamin solution. Top Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) Integrated nutrient management (INM) aims at reducing the chemical fertilizer applied and improving its efficiency through combined use of different sources of plant nutrients such as Fertilizers, 1. Organic manures, 2. Green manures, 3. Crop residues, 4. Biofertilisers and 5.Industrial wastes / soil conditioners in balanced proportions, depending on their availability and suitability in a specific rice ecosystem. Sources of nutrients: 1. Organic manures / compost – 12.5 t of FYM 2. Green manures / green leaf manures / crop residues - 6.25 t/ha 3. Fertilizers – Apply blanket recommendation as per the ecosystem. Biofertilizers: 1. Azolla –as green rmanure @ 6t /ha, as dual crop (0.5 t/ha) in 7 DAT 2. Blue green algae - 10 kg/ha on 10 DAT 3. Azotobacter /Azospirillium /Phosphobacteria - 10 packets (soil application) 4. Azophos – 20 packets (soil application) Micronutrients: Apply 25 kg of zinc sulphate mixed with 50 kg dry sand just before transplanting. It is enough to apply 12.5 kg zinc sulphate /ha, if green manure (6.25 t/ha) or enriched FYM, is applied. If deficiency symptom appears, foliar application of 0.5% Zinc sulphate + 1.0% urea can be given at 15 days interval until the Zn deficiency symptoms disappear. Dip roots of the seedlings in 1% Zinc sulphate solution for one minute before transplanting. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Expert System For Paddy (Demo Video) Expert System For Paddy (Demo Video)
Post Harvest Technology HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Harvesting Post Harvest Technologies Rice Products Processing Machinery Suppliers Post Harvest Technology Harvesting For paddy, harvesting refers to the cutting and gathering of panicles attached to the stalks. Harvesting at the right time and in the right way maximizes grain yield and minimizes grain losses and quality deterioration. Once the plants have reached full growth (approximately three months after planting) and the grains begin to ripen-the tops begin to droop and the stem yellows-the water is drained from the fields. As the fields dry, the grains ripen further and harvesting is commenced. Stage of harvest : Many factors must be considered to obtain optimum rice harvest. The grain must be mature, high in quality and have proper moisture content. Field should be sufficiently dry to support harvesting and transport. Timely harvesting ensures good grain quality, high market value and improved consumer acceptance. The right stage for harvesting is when about 80% panicles have 80 % ripened spike lets and their upper portion is straw colored. The grain contains about 20% of moisture. Rice should be harvested when the grains on lower part of the panicle are in hard dough stage. Maturity may be hastened by 3-4 days by spraying 20 % NaCl a week before harvest to escape monsoon rains Harvesting methods : Depending on the size of the operation and the amount of mechanization, rice is either harvested by hand or machine. The different harvesting systems are as follows: Manual harvesting Manual harvesting makes use of traditional threshing tools such as threshing racks, simple treadle threshers and animals for trampling or by hand using sharp knives or sickles. Gives 55-60 % grain recovery. Manual harvesting and machine threshing Rice is manually threshed, then cleaned with a machine thresher. Machine reaping and machine threshing A reaper cuts and lays the crop in a line. Threshing and cleaning can then be performed manually or by machine. Combine harvesting The combine harvester combines all operations from paddy harvesting to rice extraction - cutting, handling, threshing and cleaning. Gives 50 % recovery. Average yield : A well-managed crop of mid-late duration varieties yield about 60-70 quintals/ ha. Short duration varieties yield about 45-55 quintals. About 40-60 quintals/ ha of fodder also becomes available per season. Top Post Harvest Technologies Threshing Threshing is the process of beating paddy plants in order to separate the seeds or grains from the straw. To maintain the high quality of the harvested grains, it should be threshed immediately after harvesting. Avoid field drying and stacking for several days as it affects grain quality due to over drying. Stacked grains of high moisture content results in discoloration or yellowing. Threshing can be done manually or mechanically Manual threshing The manual methods of threshing are treading by feet, flail method, and beating stalks against tubs, boards or racks. Threshing can be done by trampling using bullocks, rubbing with bare human feet (in hills) or lifting the bundles and striking them on the raised wooden platform. Pedal threshers are also used. Freshly threshed rice must be dried well in the sun. Machine threshing Mechanical threshing removes rice grains from the rice plant, speeds up threshing (thus reducing losses), and reduces labor requirements. Power driven stationary threshers are also used. Freshly threshed rice must be dried well in the sun Top Drying Drying is the process of removal of excess moisture from the grains. Once dried, the rice grain, now called rough rice, is ready for processing. Proper drying results in increased storage life of the grains, prevention of deterioration in quality, reduction of biological respiration that leads to quality loss of grains, and optimum milling recovery. Methods of drying Sun drying Mechanical drying Chemical drying Sun Drying Sun drying is a traditional method of drying the paddy grains. Sundrying is the most economical method of drying grains. Grains are spread on drying surfaces such as concrete pavement, mats, plastic sheets and even on fields to dry naturally. Mechanical Drying Mechanical drying process means drying the grains by ventilating natural or heated air through the grain mass to get it evaporated the moisture from it. Mechanical dryers are more reliable since drying could be done anytime of the year. Chemical Drying Chemical drying method involves the spraying of common salt solution with specific gravity of 1.1 to 1.2 on the ears of the mature paddy crop. This treatment reduces the moisture content from 29% to 14.5% after four days. Top Parboiling Parboiling is a premilling hydrothermal treatment given to unhulled rice (rough rice) to improve its milling quality, nutritive value, cooking quality and storability. The process is accomplished in three steps: soaking, steaming and drying. Traditionally, parboiling was done either by single or double boiling method. Single boiling method involves soaking the unhulled rice in water at room temperature followed by open steaming for 20-30 minutes using iron kettles and then sun drying. In double streaming method, the unhusked rice is first steamed to raise its temperature and then soaked in cold water for 24-36 hrs. After soaking, it is steamed second time for 20-30 minutes followed by sun drying. Milling Milling is the process wherein the rice grain is transformed into a form suitable for human consumption, therefore, has to be done with utmost care to prevent breakage of the kernel and improve the recovery. Brown rice is milled further to create more visually appealing white rice. After harvesting and drying, the paddy is subjected to the primary milling operation which includes de-husking as well as the removal of bran layers (polishing) before it is consumed. In this process the rice which is obtained after milling is called raw rice. Another process through which rice is obtained after milling is called "Parboiling Rice." Nearly 60% of the total rice produced in India is subjected to parboiling. Rice milling losses may be qualitative or quantitative in nature. Quantitative or physical losses are manifested by low milling recovery while low head rice recovery or high percentage of broken kernel reflects the qualitative loss in rice grains. Methods of Millling : Traditional Method Before the advent of mechanical milling, hand-pounding traditional method of rice milling was in practice. In fact, hand-pounding rice has got more nutritive value as compared to machine milling rice. In hand-pounding, a variety of implements is used such as: Mortor and Pestle Dhenki Hand Stone (Chakki) Mechanical Method With the introduction of mechanized mills, hand-pounding method has steadily decreased because it could not compete with machine mills. The conventional mills in use can be categorized into three main types: Huller mills Sheller-Huller mills Sheller-Cone Polisher mills. Top Cleaning and Hulling At the processing plant, the rice is cleaned and hulled. At this point, brown rice needs no further processing. If white rice is desired, the brown rice is milled to remove the outer bran layers. Hulling is the process to remove the hull from the kernel. Manual hulling: Hulling can be done by hand by rolling or grinding the rough rice between stones. Mechanical hulling: The rough rice is first cleaned by passing through a number of sieves that sift out the debris. Blown air removes top matter. Once clean, the rice is hulled by a machine that mimics the action of the hand held stones. The shelling machine loosens the hulls from the rice. About 80-90% of the kernel hulls are removed during this process. From the shelling machine, the grains and hulls are conveyed to a stone reel that aspirates the waste hulls and moves the kernels to a machine that separates the hulled from the unhulled grains. By shaking the kernels, the paddy machine forces the heavier unhulled grains to one side of the machine, while the lighter weight rice falls to the other end. The unhulled grains are then siphoned to another batch of shelling machines to complete the hulling process. Polishing Polishing is the process of removal of bran layer in brown rice. After harvesting and drying, the paddy is subjected to the primary milling operation which includes de-husking as well as the removal of bran layers (polishing) before it is consumed. The rice obtained after this process is called raw rice. Quality and Grading Quality of rice is not always easy to define as it depends on the consumer and the intended end use for the grain. Grain quality is not just dependent on the variety of rice, but quality also depends on the crop production environment, harvesting, processing and milling systems. Characteristics Considered for Grading of Milled Rice Dead rice, brokens and brewers percentages Defectives Foreign matter Presence of paddy Whiteness Chalkiness Moisture content Objectives of establishing standards and grades To ensure only edible rice reaches the consumer. To improve post harvest practices so as to eliminate or reduce waste. To improve agronomic practices to increase farm yields. To improve processing practices for better milling recoveries and for market expansion. To protect consumers from price/quality manipulation. Grades of Indian Rice Common variety: Short bold & long bold rice Fine variety: Medium slender rice Superfine variety: Long slender & short slender rice Top Storage Storage is the process of keeping grains, whether in bags or in bulk, in a storage structure designed to protect the stored product from inclement weather and pests for a short or long period of time to await processing or movement to other location. Grains are stored for either of the following reasons: To provide uniform supply of food throughout the year, because grains are produced seasonally while consumption is fairly uniform throughout the year. To provide reserve for contingencies such as flood, drought and other calamities. To speculate on a good price either in domestic or in the export market. The grains are stored at three different levels, such as: Producer's Level Trader's Level Urban Organizational Storage Level The methods followed for storing the grains are: Storage in bags Loose storage Storage in bags is convenient for short term storage, where grain is intended for very early onward movement. For short term storage, no control measures against insects are needed. In loose/bulk storage method, large quantity of grains can be stored in per unit volume of space and the infestation of insects/pests is lower. The basic requirements of a good storage practice are: a healthy, clean, and uniformly dried grain, and a structure that will maintain a suitable environment that will prevent pests. Top Rice Products By Products of Rice Modernization of rice milling Industry also results in production of quality by-products viz., broken rice, husk and rice bran. Technology is now available for the production of value- added products from these by-products. Broken rice The broken rice is widely used in the food preparations and in the industries for making flour and in the manufacture of baby foods. The starch extracted from broken rice finds wider application in the pharmaceutical, textile and other industries. Rice husk Rice husk that contains about 38% cellulose and 32% lignin and is one of the most abundant renewable agriculture based fuel materials. The production of rice husk is about 80 million tonnes per year, equivalent in energy to about 170 million barrels of oil. Paddy husk contains about 22 per cent ash of which 95 per cent is silica. Because of its high silica content, it is used as an abrasive. Large quantities of husk are used in India as fuel for boilers, kilns and household purposes. Rice straw Each tonne of paddy produces an equal amount of straw as by-products. Straw can be used as ruminant fodder, stable bedding material, raw material in mushroom cultivation and industrial processes like papermaking etc. It is also used as fuel for cooking. Paddy straw is used as substrate for Mushroom production. For 100 kg Mushroom production - Dry paddy straw (not more than one year old) -100 kg is required. Preparation of Substrate-Use Dried paddy straw, 500 gms per bed. Cut the paddy straw into small bits of 3 to 5 cm. and soak it in cold water for 6-8 hours. Take it out and then immerse in boiling water for 15-30 minutes and drain off excess water. Dry the straw in the shade for 2 hours and then use. Rice bran Commercially rice bran is the most valuable by-product, which is characterized by its high fat (15 to 20%) and protein content (12%). Because of its nutritional value, it is being used as feed for poultry and livestock. More stable defatted bran containing higher percentage of protein, vitamins and minerals is an excellent ingredient for both food and feed. It is generally contaminated with husk, which lowers its nutritive value. Rice bran oil Bran oil is obtained by the extraction of rice bran with solvents. The oil contains a high percentage of unsaturated fatty acids, yet it is quite stable because of the presence of natural antioxidants. When refined, bleached and deodorized, it is used for salad dressing and as cooking oil. Bran after solvent extraction has a higher percentage of protein than the original material. With its low fat content it keeps well. Importance of rice bran oil Rice bran oil contains components of vitamin E that may benefit health. The unique components, such as or tocotrienol, have been drawing people's attention. Oryzanol reduces the harmful cholesterol (LDL) without reducing good cholesterol (HDL). Tocotrienol, is highlighted as the most precious and powerful vitamin E existing in nature and is said to have an anti-cancer effect. Top VALUE ADDITION Processed Products Fermented Products Based on Rice Extruded Products 1. RICE - PROCESSED PRODUCT Parched rice It is prepared by throwing rice in sand heated to a high temperature in an iron or mud pan. On stirring, rice begins to crackle and swell. Then the content of the pan are removed and sieved to separate the parched rice from sand. Parboiled rice is used for making grayish to brilliant white colour parched rice and sold either salted or unsalted. Expanded rice (Pori) Expanded rice (murmura, pori, muri) is a traditional convenience food widely consumed in India. In the traditional process, the paddy is soaked in water preferably over night until saturation, drained and then either steamed or dry roasted in sand for parboiling. The parboiled paddy is milled, salted and again roasted in sand for expansion. Puffed rice: This popular ready-to-eat snack product is obtained by puffing milled parboiled rice. In the traditional process rice is gently heated on the furnace without sand to reduce the moisture content slightly. It is then mixed with salt solution and again roasted on furnace in small batches with sand on a strong fire for a few seconds to produce the expanded rice. Rice expands about 8 times retaining the grain shape and is highly porous and crisp. Parched paddy or puffed paddy :(using paddy) Sun dried paddy is filled in mud jars and is moistened with hot water. After 2-3 min. the water is decanted and the jars are kept in an inverted position for 8-10 hours. Next the paddy is exposed to the sun for a short time and then parched in hot sand as in the preparation of parched rice. The parched grains are sieved to remove sand and winnowed to separate the husk. Puffed rice from parboiled rice The rice is soaked in salt water to increase the moisture to about 20%. The moist rice is introduced into a hot vessel at about 250-275°C for 30-40 seconds. The rice puffs suddenly. Popped rice This is prepared from raw paddy. The paddy at a moisture content of 12-14% is directly roasted in iron pans using sand as a medium at a temperature of 150-200°C. Flaked rice is value added product prepared from paddy. Traditionally, it is prepared from soaked paddy, after heat treatment and immediate flattening using a flaking machine (an edge runner). Flaked rice is thin and papery and of white colour. Quick cooking rice is made by steeping polished rice in water to a moisture content of 35 per cent, cooking under pressure and drying. Derived products Polished rice may be precooked and canned as rice pudding and also used to make dry breakfast cereals. Top 2. RICE - FERMENTED PRODUCTS Idli Idli is a small, white acid – leavened, and steamed cake made by bacterial fermentation (12-18 hours) of a thick batter made from rice and dehulled blackgram dhal. Idlies are soft, moist and spongy had a desirable sour flavour. For idli, the rice was coarsely ground and the black gram was finely ground. Dosa Dosa is another common fermented product used in India. This is prepared from a fermented batter of rice and pulse in the proportions ranging from 6:1 to 10:1. Both the ingredients are finely ground, unlike in the idli batter which contains the rice component in a coarse consistency. The dosa batter is very thin and dosa is baked on a hot pan. Other fermented products Some other fermented foods based on rice used in the country are ambali, prepared from a thick fermented batter of finger millet flour and rice, ganji, fermented, surplus water from cooked rice and fermented rice or kali which is left over cooked rice to which water is added and the mixture allowed to ferment overnight. Top 3. RICE- EXTRUDED PRODUCTS Extrusion is a process that combines several unit operation including mixing. kneading, shearing, heating, cooling shaping and forming. It involves compressing, and working raw material eg. Flours, starches, proteins, salt, sugar and other minor ingredients to form a semi solid mass under a variety of controlled conditions and then forcing it to pass through a restricted opening such as a shaped hole or slot at a predetermined rate. Heat is applied directly by steam injection or indirectly through a heated barrel. The final process temperature in the cooking extruder can be high as 200°C but the time of exposure to heat is relatively short (10-60 seconds). The extrusion cooking is also called a high temperature short time (HTST) process. Extruded products Rice based extruded products include sevai, idiappam, murukku (chakli) rice based vadagam etc. Rice based noodles and noodles from fermented rice flour are popular. Idiappam Idiappam is a traditional food prepared from the combination of parboiled rice and raw rice. It is consumed as breakfast / dinner for the peoples especially South Indians. It is a steamed product and consumed as either in the form of sweet or savoury dish. Murukku Raw rice and black gram were ground in a mill separately and sieved through 80 BS sieve and used for the preparation of murukku instant mix. Vadagam The ingredients were mixed and 250 ml of water was added and cooked for 10 minutes until a thick extrudable paste was formed. The hot paste was extruded in hand extruder (dia 5 mm) and dried in sun for about five hours. The dried vadagam sample was packed in a polyethylene bags and sealed. Top Processing Machinery Suppliers 1. Aurosimon Company Profile Manufacturer of Food Processing Machinery for Cleaning and Milling Machines for Cereals Nursery bed preparation Main Markets : Asia Annual Sales : Below US$1 Million Business Type: Manufacturer Contact Us M.M.Patel Villupuram District, Via Pondicherry T C BALAM Villupuram 605111 Tamil Nadu India Phone: 91-413-2671341/2332017 Fax: 91-413-2267629 2. Buhler (India) Ltd. Company Profile Manufacturer of Complete Plant Machinery and Equipment for Food Grains and Food Processing Industry. Business Type : Manufacturer Main Markets : Australia, East Europe, West Europe, Middle East, North America, South America, Asia, Africa Annual Sales : Below US$1 Million Contact Us Dipak Mane 13-D, KIADB Industrial Area, Attibele Bangalore 562107 Karnataka India Phone: 91-80-27820000, 27820315 Fax: 91-80-27820001 3. Fowler Westrup (India) Pvt. Ltd Company Profile Manufactures Nirmal Filters. NIRMAL FILTERS are available in capacities ranging from 200 to 12,000 liters per hour.FWL also Manufactures Pre-Cleaners, Fine Cleaners, Gravity Separators, De-Stoners, Conveyors, Bucket Elevators for Processing Hybrid Seeds. Business Type : Manufacturer Main Markets : Asia, Africa, Australia, East Europe, West Europe, Middle East, North America, South America Annual Sales : Below US$1 Million Contact Us Kilar B. Vijaykumar Plot No.-249 & 250, Bommasandra Industrial Area, 3rd Phase Bangalore 560099 Karnataka India Phone: 91-80-7832991 Fax: 91-80-7832990 4. Sri Manjunatha Industries Company Profile Sri Manjunatha Industries (Srimi) / Entel Electronics Pvt. Ltd. is one of the leading industries in Design and Manufacture of various types of Food Processing Machineries as Hammer Mills, Destoners, Coating Machine and UV Curing machines. Business Type : Manufacturer, Exporter Year Established : 1990 Main Markets : Africa, Australia, East Europe, West Europe, Middle East, North America, South America, Asia Products Food Processing Machineries Design and Manufacture of various types of Food Processing Machineries as Hammer Mills, Destoners, Coating Machine and UV Curing machines. Contact Us Lokanath Reddy # 1 & 2, II Main, Garudachar Palya Opp. V.S.T. White Field Road, Mahadev Pura (Post). Bangalore 560048 Karnataka, India Phone: 91-80-51157678, Fax: 91-80-51157678 5. Emmppe Associates Company Profile Importers of Rice Mill Machinery. Business Type : Importer Main Markets : Asia Annual Sales : Below US$1 Million Contact Us A. Magesh Kumar 2/368-A, Irugur Road, Chinniampalayam Coimbatore 641001 Tamil Nadu India Phone: 91-422-2629655 Fax: 91-422-2629930 6. KIRORIMAL KASHIRAM Company Profile Importers of Machinery, Rice Machinery Importers of Rice Mill Machinery. Business Type : Importer Main Markets : Asia Annual Sales : Below US$1 Million Contact Us Arun Kumar Agarwal 60, Anderson Street Chennai 600001 Tamil Nadu India Phone: 91-44-25383646/25386785 Fax: 91-44-25364711 7. R. R. Engineers Company Profile We are Manufacturer of Flour Mills Machinaries Business Type : Manufacturer Main Markets : Asia Annual Sales : Below US$1 Million Contact Us A Remigius 11/74, Sridevi Nagar, Koundampalayam Coimbatore Tamil Nadu India Phone: 91-422-6524389 8. G. G. Dandekar Machine Works Ltd. Company Profile Manufacturer & Exporter of Paddy Drycleaner for Cleaning Grains, Pneumatic Rubber Roll Sheller (Automatic Paddy Husker) for Shelling Paddy, Parboiling & Drying Plant, Husk Separator. Business Type : Manufacturer, Exporter Main Markets : Asia Annual Sales : Below US$1 Million Contact Us Atul Kirloskar Dandekar Wadi, Bhiwandi Thane 421302 Maharashtra, India Phone: 91-252-2229870, 2229871, Fax: 91-252-2229873 9. Guru Nanak Engg & Foundry Works Company Profile Manufacturer & Exporter of Rice Mill Machinery. Business Type : Manufacturer, Exporter Main Markets : Asia Annual Sales : Below US$1 Million Contact Us Sharanjit Singh 166, Industrial Area, Focal Point, Mehta Road Amritsar 143001 Punjab India Phone: 91-183-2587943, 2583542 Fax: 91-183-2587944 10. R. Shunmugam Pillai & Sons - India Company Profile We are the wholesale suppliers of all kinds of food processing machinery, flour mill machinery, flour mill accessories. Business Type : Manufacturers / Merchants/Traders Contact Us 7, Eduka Mosque Lane, (chellandiamman Koil St.), Palani Road, Dindigul, Tamil Nadu, India Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Rice Ecosystem HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Wet System Dry System Semidry System Hybrid seedproduction Seed Productionin varieties Rice Ecosystem Systems of rice cultivation in various rice growing areas are largely depends upon the crop growing conditions like soil type, available water and prevailing monsoon. The principal rice ecosystems followed in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka are: 1.Wet system 2.Dry system 3.Semidry system Wet System The wet system is also known as Irrigated rice. In this system, the crop is grown under wet (irrigated) conditions from seed to seed. The field is brought to a soft puddle by repeated ploughings with 5-7 cm standing water. After obtaining a soft puddle and perfect levelling, rice seedlings are transplanted or sprouted seeds dibbled or broadcasted on the puddle field. This system of cultivation is followed wherever assured irrigation water is available. This irrigated rice contributes to 55 per cent of the total rice production System of Rice Intensification (SRI) Transplanted Puddled Lowland Rice Direct Wet Seeded Puddled Lowland Rice METHODS FOLLOWED IN WET SYSTEM ARE SYSTEM OF RICE INTENSIFICATION TRANSPLANTED PUDDLED LOWLAND RICE DIRECT WET SEEDED PUDDLED LOWLAND RICE Top System of Rice Intensification System of Rice Intensification (SRI) is a methodology for increasing the productivity of irrigated rice by changing the management of plants, soil, water and nutrients particularly by eliciting greater root growth. SRI is not a technology because something still evolving and improving, season by season, as more experience is gained and as more farmers, scientists and others apply their intelligence and insights to making rice production more efficient and sustainable. Critical Steps in SRI SRI Practices Advantages and Constraints of SRI Crop Response Difference between Conventional and SRI method of cultivation Cost comparison for Conventional and SRI method of cultivation Critical steps in SRI Nursery area and Seed rate Seedling age Square planting Water management Mechanical (Cono) weeder usage Nursery area and seed rate Only 7-8 kg of seed is required to plant 1 ha. Nursery area is reduced to 100m2 / ha. For raised beds @ 1 x 5 m and 20 beds are required for 1 ha. Spread polythene sheets over the beds evenly. Fill the soil evenly over the Polythene sheets upto 4cm. Uniformly spread 375 g of seeds in each 5 sq.m. nursery bed. Watering through rose can is advisable. Cover the seed bed using locally available mulching materials like coirpith/straw Seedling age Fourteen days old seedlings were recommended for transplanting (3 leaves stage) If the nursery bed is properly prepared with sufficient organic manure, the seedling growth will be good to handle. Water Management Water management is one of the critical steps in SRI and provision of aerobic environment in rice fields is the core point in SRI. Plants with truncated roots cannot access the residual soil moisture in lower horizons that is accessible to plants which have large and functioning roots systems to maintain their growth and productivity. Hence, alternate wetting and drying is advocated. Irrigation only to moist the soil in the early period of 10 days. Restoring irrigation to a maximum depth of 2.5cm after development of hairline cracks in the soil until panicle initiation. Increasing irrigation depth to 5.0 cm after Panicle initiation one day after disappearance of ponded water. Mechanical (Cono) weeder usage Square planting eases the cono/rotary weeder operation in two directions, and thereby weed management could be effected efficiently. In SRI, weeder should be used at 10 days interval from the date of transplanting. Three labours are enough to weed one acre. Weeds are trampled and on decay the nutrient are ploughed back to the soil. Soil is frequently disturbed which has beneficial physico chemical – biological results in soil. Root pruning triggers the tillering that results in bursting out of tillers. Water level should be properly monitored for usage of weeder. It is important to remove the left out weeds by hand. By this the cost of weeding is reduced by 52.5%. Top SRI Practices The Principles of SRI are achieved by following certain practices Season Dry season with assured irrigation is more suitable. Difficulty in crop establishment may be seen in areas with heavy downpour (NE Monsoon periods of Tamil Nadu) Varieties Hybrids and varieties with heavy tillering. Seed rate 7- 8 kg / ha for single seedling per hill Nursery Management Required nursery area is 100 m2/ha (or) 2.5 cent/ha – 1cent/acre Usage of well decomposed good quality FYM judiciously. For raised beds @ 1 x 5 m and 20 beds are required for 1 ha. Powdered DAP may be applied @ 95g/raised bed in total 1.9 kg should be used. Spread polythene sheets over the beds evenly. Old polysacks can also be used. ill the soil evenly on the Polythene sheets upto 4cm. Seed treatment can be done with Pseudomonas 10g/kg seed. 75 g Azophos biofertiliser/kg seed. Uniformly spread 375 g of seeds in each 5 sq.m. nursery bed. Watering through rose can is advisable. Cover the seed bed using locally available mulching materials like coirpith/straw. Main field preparation Plough the land during summer to economize the water requirement for initial preparation of land. Flood the field 1 or 2 days before ploughing and allow water to soak in. Keep the surface of the field covered with water. Keep water to a depth of 2.5cm at the time of puddling. Good leveling (laser leveling) of the main field is essential in SRI. Field drainage is an important component in SRI. Transplanting The seedling along with the soil intact with the roots should be removed and plant them immediately. Fourteen days old seedlings were recommended for transplanting. At this stage the seedling will have 3 leaves. If the nursery bed is properly prepared with sufficient organic manure, the seedling growth will be good to handle. Plant spacing Square planting at 25 x 25cm ensures optimum space for efficient utilization of resources. Place single seedling at intersecting points marked with the marker. Place the seedling without plunging too deep into the soil. Nutirent Management Apply 12.5 t of FYM or compost or green leaf manure @ 6.25 t/ha. Organic manures addition is recommended in SRI cultivation, as they are found to supply essential nutrients, and creates favorable conditions for soil microbes being a source of carbon. Apply fertilizer nutrients as per soil test recommendations. N dose may be through Leaf Color Chart (LCC). P & K may be through Site Specific Nutrition Management. Depending on the necessity, top dress with chemical fertilizers. Water Management Water management is one of the critical steps in SRI and provision of aerobic environment in rice fields is the core point in SRI. Irrigate to 2.5 cm depth of water level after hairline crack formation up to panicle initiation and after that disappearance of ponded water. Water saving in this system is 40-50% from planting to harvest. Farmers using ground water will realize the water, time and electricity saving. Regular water application to keep soil moist but not saturated. Intermittent wetting and drying for adequate aeration during vegetative phase. Relatively frequent watering after vegetative phase. No water stagnation at any stage. Weeder Use Using weeder is of primary importance in SRI. Use simple rotary weeder between crop rows in both the directions starting from 10 days after planting About four rotary weedings at 10 to 15 days interval could be adequate till panicle initiation If necessary, one or two hand weedings may be necessary to remove weeds closer to rice plants. Top Advantages of SRI Saving in Seed requirement- Since single seedling is planted at wider spacing. Seed requirement in SRI is only 7-8 kg per hectare. This is particularly useful in the case of hybrids where seed cost is very high. Reduction in nursery area. Reduction in nursery duration. Increased tillering- 30 tillers per plant are fairly easy to achieve. Profused root growth- Greater force required to uproot SRI plants than conventional plants. Improved grain filling- Improvements in grain filling with larger panicles and higher panicle weight have been observed. Water Savings- Since the soil is kept moist only during vegetative growth phase and only minimal water is using during reproductive phase, SRI results in water savings to an extent of 35 to 40 % compared to conventional method. Less Lodging- SRI provides good growth environment for rice plants that putforth stronger tillers and extensive root growth and are more resistant to lodging. Less incidence of pests and diseases - As SRI plants are stronger, the incidence of pests and diseases is low. Reduced chemicals fertilizer- Though chemicals fertilizer increase the yield in SRI however resource poor farmers still can apply the locally available organic manures that still maintain higher yields while reducing the cost of externally purchased inputs. Increase grain Yield- Higher grain yields are associated with SRI than conventional method. Increased net returns up to 83 to 206% depending on wage rate. Reduced rodent damage in the fieid. Higher net profit. Top Constraints in the adoption of SRI Require strict water control practices Initially SRI method require more labourers Requires greater skill for transplanting Weed menace is relatively higher than conventional transplanting. As SRI is labour intensive it is not suitable for large scale production. Traditional mindset of the farmers Lack of awareness about the technology Non availability of critical implements like marker and weeders Lack of co-operation from the transplanting labourers Top Crop response Higher plant height Higher root growth. Higher tillering of even shy tillering genotypes Increase in number of productive panicles/m2 Higher number of grains /panicle Higher % of filled grains per panicle Lodging resistance Leaves remain green up to harvest Resistance to adverse effects of drought Higher nutrient use efficiency Higher biochemical activities Higher grain and straw yield. Higher out turn of milled rice. Top Differences between conventional and SRI method of cultivation Practices Component Conventional SRI Nursery (to plant/ ha) Area Seed rate (kg /ha) 800 m2 Recommended: 60 kg/ha 100 m2 7-8 kg/ha Farmers’ practice: 125 – 150 kg/ha Planting Seedling age 21+ 14 Number of seedlings/ hill 2-3 + 1 Method Recommended:Rectangular Square Farmers’ practice:Random Spacing Recommended: 15 x 10 cm (105 – 115 days crop) 20 x 10 cm (135-155 days crop) 25 x 25 cm Farmers’ practice : Variable No. of hills/ metre square 66 / 50 / ± 16 Irrigation Recommended Irrigate to 5 cm depth one day after the disappearance of ponded water Irrigate to 2.5 cm depth (after hairline crack formation up to panicle initiation and after disappearance of Ponded water). Farmers’ practice Flooding (Variable depths) Weeding Recommended Pre-emergence herbicide + hand weeding at 30 DAT (or) hand weeding at 15,30 DAT Using rotary / cono weeder in between rows in both directions at 10, 20, 30 and 40 DAT and hand removal of left out weeds. Cost of Comparision Cost of Cultivation Sl.No Details Total Expenditure (Rs. / Ha) Conventional SRI 1. Nursery 2100 681 2. Main field preparations 2005 2005 3. Manures and Fertilizers 7254 7254 4. Transplanting 2400 3200 5. Weeding 3200 3200 6. Irrigation 300 240 7. Plant Protection 660 660 8. Harvest 3500 3500 Total 21419 19060 Economic Benefits Sl.No Details Conventional SRI 1. Revenue from grain yield @Rs. 7/Kg 42441 56014 2. Revenue from straw yield @Rs. 0.25/Kg 2263 2918 3. Total revenue (in Rs./Ha) 44704 58932 4. Total Expenditure (In Rs./Ha) 21429 19060 5. Net Profit (in Rs./Ha) 11149 23868 6. C B Ratio 2.08 3.09 Top Transplanted Puddled Lowland Rice Nursery Management Wet Nursery Nursery area Select 20 cents (800 m2) of land area near to water source for raising seedlings for one hectare.Seed rate 30 kg for long duration 40 kg for medium duration 60 kg for short duration varieties and 20 kg for hybrids Forming Seedbeds and sowing Mark plots of 2.5m breadth with channels 30 cm wide all around the seedbeds. Length of the seed bed may vary from 8 to 10m according to soil and slope of the land. Collect the puddled soil from the channel and spread on the seedbeds or drag a heavy along the channel to lower it, so that the seed bed is at a higher level. Level the surface of the seedbed, so that the water drains into the channel. Sow the sprouted seeds uniformly on the seedbed, having thin film of water in the nursery. Dry Nursery Nursery area Select 20 cents (800 m2) of land area for raising seedlings for one hectare. Seed rate 30 kg for long duration 40 kg for medium duration 60 kg for short duration varieties and 20 kg for hybrids Forming Seedbeds and sowing Dry ploughed field with fine tilth is required. Nursery area with sand and loamy soil status is more suitable for this type of nursery. Plots of 1 to 1.5 m width of beds and channels may be formed. Length may be according to the slope and soil. Raised beds are more ideal if the soil is clayey in nature. Sowing may be dry seeding. Seeds may be covered with sand and finely powdered well decomposed farm yard manure. Irrigation may be done to wet the soil to saturation. Optimum age for transplanting – 4th leaf stage This type of nursery is handy in times of delayed receipt of canal water. Main Field Preparation Land preparation - Tillage Plough the land during summer to economize the water requirement for initial preparation of land. Flood the field 1 or 2 days before ploughing and allow water to soak in. Keep the surface of the field covered with water. Keep water to a depth of 2.5cm at the time of puddling. After puddling perfect land levelling is required Manures and Basal Feritlizer application Application of organic manures : Apply 12.5 t of FYM or compost or green leaf manure @ 6.25 t/ha. If green manure is raised @ 20 kg /ha in situ, incorporate it to a depth of 15 cm using a green manure trampler or tractor. Apply 22 kg urea / ha at the time of first puddling while incorporating the stubbles of previous crop to compensate immobilization of N by the stubbles. This may be done atleast 10 days prior to planting of subsequent crop. Biofertilizer application : Mix 10 packets (2000 g)/ha of Azospirillum and 10 packets (2000g/ha)of Phosphobacteria or 20 packets (4000g/ha) of Azophos inoculants with 25 kg FYM and 25 kg of soil and broadcast the mixture uniformly in the main field before transplanting and Pseudomonas fluorescens (Pf 1) at 2.5 kg/ha mixed with 50 kg FYM and 25 kg of soil and broadcast the mixture uniformly before transplanting. Application of inorganic fertilizers Apply fertilizer nutrients as per soil test recommendations. Blanket recommendation : 150:50:50 kg N:P2O5:K2O /ha. Apply 25% of recommended N and K fertilizers before transplanting. Recommended Phosphorus fertilizer may be applied as basal and incorporated. Apply 25 kg of zinc sulphate with 50kg sand just before transplanting. Top Stand Establishment Optimum age of seedlings for quick establishment Optimum age of the seedlings is 18-22 days for short, 25-30 days for medium and 35-40 days for long duration varieties. Planting seedlings in the main field Soil Medium and low fertility High fertility Duration Short Medium Long Short Medium Long Spacing (cm) 15x10 20x10 20x15 20x10 20x15 20x20 Hills / m2 66 50 33 50 33 25 Transplant 2-3 seedlings/hill for short duration and 2 seedlings/hill for medium and long duration varieties Shallow planting (3 cm) ensures quick establishment and more tillers. Deeper planting (> 5cm) leads to delayed establishment and reduced tillers. Line planting permits rotary weeding and its associated benefits. Allow a minimum row spacing of 20 cm to use rotary weeder. Fill up the gaps between 7th and 10th DAT. Water Management Puddling and leveling minimizes the water requirement. At the time of transplanting, a shallow depth of 2cm of water is adequate since high depth of water will lead to deep planting resulting in reduction of tillering. Maintain 2 cm of water up to seven days of transplanting. After the establishment stage, cyclic submergence of water is the best practice for rice crop. This cyclic 5cm submergence has to be continued throughout the crop period. Critical stages of water requirement in rice are a) panicle initiation, b)booting, c)heading and d) flowering. During these stages, the irrigation interval should not exceed the stipulated time so as to cause the depletion of moisture below the saturation level. During booting and maturity stages continuous inundation of 5cm and above leads to advancement in root decay and leaf senescence, delay in heading and reduction in the number of filled grains per panicle and poor harvest index. Provide adequate drainage facilities to drain excess water or strictly follow irrigation schedule of one day after disappearance of ponded. Last irrigation may be 15 days ahead of harvest. Top Direct Wet Seeded Puddled Lowland Rice Area and Field Preparation Area Direct wet seeding can be followed in all the areas wherein transplanting is in vogue. Field preparation On receipt of showers during the months of May - July repeated ploughing should be carried out so as to conserve the moisture, destroy the weeds and break the clods. Flood the field 1 or 2 days before ploughing and allow water to soak in. Keep the surface of the field covered with water. Keep water to a depth of 2.5cm at the time of puddling. More care should be taken to level the field to zero level. Varieites All the varieties recommended for transplanting can do well under direct wet seeded conditions also. However, the following varieties are more suited. Varieties Duration (Days) Time of Sowing Ponmani 160 to 165 1st to 30th August Co 43, IR20, ADT 38 ADT 39, Ponni, Improved White Ponni 125 to135 1st to 30th September ADT 36, ADT 37 105 to 110 1st to 10th October Manures and Basal Fertilizer application Application of organic manures Apply 12.5 t of FYM or compost or green leaf manure @ 6.25 t/ha. If green manure is raised @ 20 kg /ha in situ, incorporate it to a depth of 15 cm using a green manure trampler or tractor. Stubble incorporation Apply 22 kg urea / ha at the time of first puddling while incorporating the stubbles of previous crop to compensate immobilization of N by the stubbles. This may be done atleast 10 days prior to planting of subsequent crop. Biofertilizer application Mix 10 packets (2000 g)/ha of Azospirillum and 10 packets (2000g/ha)of Phosphobacteria or 20 packets (4000g/ha) of Azophos inoculants with 25 kg FYM and 25 kg of soil and broadcast the mixture uniformly in the main field before transplanting and Pseudomonas fluorescens (Pf 1) at 2.5 kg/ha mixed with 50 kg FYM and 25 kg of soil and broadcast the mixture uniformly before transplanting. Application of inorganic fertilizers Apply fertilizer nutrients as per soil test recommendations. Blanket recommendation : 50:25:25 kg N:P2O5:K2O/ha. Apply 25% of recommended N and K fertilizers before transplanting. Recommended Phosphorus fertilizer may be applied as basal and incorporated. Apply 25 kg of zinc sulphate with 50kg sand just before transplanting. Sowing Follow a seed rate of 60 kg / ha Pre-germinate the seeds Sow the sprouted seeds by drum seeder or broadcast uniformly with thin film of water. Dual cropping of rice-green manure is economic for nutrient budget and efficient for grain production. For this method use ‘TNAU Rice-Green manure seeder’. After cultivation: Thinning and gap filling should be done 14 - 21 days after sowing, taking advantage of the immediate rain. If dual cropped with green manure, incorporate the green manure when grown to 40cm height or at 30 days after sowing, whichever is earlier, using Cono-weeder. Green manure incorporated fields may be operated again with rotary weeder a week later in order to aerate the soil and to exploit organic acids formed if any. Water Management During first one week just wet the soil by thin film of water. Depth of irrigation may be increased to 2.5cm progressively along the crop age. Provide adequate drainage facilities to drain excess water or strictly follow irrigation schedule of one day after disappearance of ponded water. Last irrigation may be 15 days ahead of harvest. Top Dry System In this system the fields are ploughed and harrowed in summer for achieving the required tilth. The seed is sown directly with the onset of the monsoon showers, either by broadcasting, dibbling behind the country plough or by drilling in lines. Line-sowing is preferable, as it ensures an adequate stand establishment and facilitates easy weeding and interculture. Dry seeded rainfed unpuddled lowland rice Rainfed upland rice Dry Seeded Rainfed un-puddled Low Land Field Preparation Whenever possible give one or two summer ploughings to minimize weed growth Dry plough to get fine tilth taking advantage of rains and soil moisture availability. Perfect land leveling for efficient weed and water management. Ensure deep tillage and fine tilth at the time of final land preparation for sowing. Provide shallow trenches (15 cm width) at an interval of 3m all along the field to facilitate draining excess water at the early growth stage. Varieites Short duration varieties are more suitable Manures and Basal fertilizer application Blanket recommendation : 50:25:25 kg N:P2O5:K2O /ha Apply a basal dose of 750 kg of FYM enriched with fertilizer phosphorus (P at 25 kg/ha) Basal application of FeSO4 at 50 kg/ha is desirable for iron deficient soil. Seed Rate and Sowing Seed rate: 75kg/ha dry seed for any recommended variety. Seed hardening with 1% KCl for 16 hours (seed and KCl solution 1:1) and shade dried to bring to storable moisture. This will enable the crop to withstand early moisture stress. On the day of sowing, treat the hardened seeds first with Pseudomonas fluorescens 10g/kg of seed and then with Azophos 2000g or Azospirillum and Phosphobacteria @ 600g each per ha seed, whichever is available. Broadcasting: The seeds are sown by broadcasting when the moisture is at the marginal level and the surface soil is compacted by a light roller for compacting the seeds with moist soil. Line sowing: Sowing /dibbling behind the country plough. Line sowing is better than broadcasting. Using seed drill to ensure optimum population, reduce the seed rate and for early intercultivation. Drill sow with 20 cm inter row spacing using seed drill. The seeds can also be sown behind the country plough Depth of sowing should be 3 - 5 cm and the top soil can be made compact with leveling board. Pre-monsoon sowing is advocated for uniform germination. After Cultivation Azospirillum inoculants 10 packets (2000g/ha) and Phosphobacteria 10 packets (2000g/ha) or 20 packets (4000g/ha) of Azophos mixed with 25 kg of FYM may be broadcasted uniformly over the field just after the receipt soaking rain / moisture. Thinning and gap filling should be done 14 - 21days after sowing, taking advantage of the immediate rain Spray Cycocel 1000 ppm (1 ml of commercial product in one lit. of water) under water deficit situations to mitigate ill-effects. Foliar spray of Kaolin 3% (30 ml in 1 lit. of water) or KCl 1% (10 ml in 1 lit. of water) to overcome moisture stress at different physiological stages of rice. Weed Management First weeding can be done between 15 and 21 days after germination. Second weeding may be done 30 - 45 days after first weeding. Apply pendimethalin 1.0 kg/ha on 5 days after sowing or Pretilachlor + safener (Sofit) 0.45kg/ha on the day of receipt of soaking rain followed by one hand weeding on 30 to 35 days after sowing. Top Rainfed Upland Rice Field Preparation The success of the direct seeded rice depends entirely on the monsoon rains,besides proper stand of crop. If sowing is done in a properly prepared land, proper stand of crop can be achieved. A field with fine tilth facilitates the seed to come in contact with the soil moisture after drilling and enables the seed to germinate quickly and uniformly. Thus, an ideal preparation of the land will help to achieve a uniform stand, facilitate weeding and fertilizer practices. Varieties Short duration varieties like PTB 28, PTB 29, PTB 30 Manures and Basal fertilizer application In Tamil Nadu, P is applied at 25 kg/ha as enriched FYM at the time of last ploughing.N at 50 kg/ha and K at 25 kg/ha should be applied in two splits viz.20 to 25 DAS and the second at 40 to 45 DAS. In kerala, For modan cultivation (upland crop) Apply the full dose of P2O5 (20 kg/ha) at the time of land preparation as basal dressing and apply nitrogen (40 kg/ha) in three equal split doses, first as basal dressing, second at tillering stage (three weeks after seeding) and the third at panicle initiation stage (about thirty days before flowering). Apply K2O (30 kg/ha) either in a single dose as basal or in two split doses half basal and half at the panicle initiation stage. Seed Rate and Sowing Seed rate – 80-100 kg/ha Broadcasting: The seeds are sown by broadcasting when the moisture is at the marginal level and the surface soil is compacted by a light roller for compacting the seeds with moist soil. Line sowing: Sowing /dibbling behind the country plough. Line sowing is better than broadcasting. Using seed drill to ensure optimum population, reduce the seed rate and for early intercultivation. Weed Management Under upland condition, weeds reduce the yield to the extent of 50 %. First weeding should be done at 15 to 20 DAS and second weeding may be done on 45 DAS. Under unfavourable rainfall conditions, application of Thiobencarb 2.5l/ha or Pendimethalin 3.0 l/ha 8 DAS as sand mix if adequate moisture is available followed by one hand weeding on 30 to 35 DAS. Top Semidry System In this system seeds are sown in ploughed dry soil with monsoon rains. Whenever water is available after onset of monsoon, it is treated as wet paddy. In command area, anticipating the release of water, rice crop can be raised under semi dry condition up to a maximum of 45 days. Then the crop in converted in the wet condition on receipt of water. Dry seeded rice in unpuddled lowland Dry seeded rice in unpuddled lowland Area and Field Preparation Area - Chengleput, Ramnad, Kanyakumari and Pudukottai district in TamilNadu. Field preparation Dry plough to get fine tilth taking advantage of rains and soil moisture availability. Apply gypsum at 1 t/ha basally wherever soil crusting and soil hardening problem exist.Perfect land leveling for efficient weed and water management. Provide shallow trenches (15 cm width) at an interval of 3m all along the field to facilitate draining excess water at the early growth stage. Manures and Basal fertilizer application Blanket recommendation: 75:25:37.5 kg N:P2O5:K2O/ha Apply a basal dose of 750 kg of FYM enriched with fertilizer phosphorus (P at 25 kg/ha). Apply N and K in three splits at 20-25, 40-45 and 60-65 days after germination. Each split may follow 25 kg N and 12.5 kg K20. Basal application of ZnSO4 at 25kg/ha and FeSO4 at 50 kg/ha is desirable wherever Zinc and iron deficiency were noted. Seed Rate and Sowing Seed rate: 75kg/ha dry seed for any recommended variety. Seed hardening with 1% KCl for 16 hours (seed and KCl solution 1:1) and shade dried to bring to storable moisture. This will enable the crop to withstand early moisture stress. On the day of sowing, treat the hardened seeds first with Pseudomonas fluorescens 10g/kg of seed and then with Azophos 2000g or Azospirillum and Phosphobacteria @ 600g each per ha seed, whichever is available. Drill sow with 20 cm inter row spacing using seed drill. The seeds can also be sown behind the country plough Depth of sowing should be 3 - 5 cm and the top soil can be made compact with leveling board. Pre-monsoon sowing is advocated for uniform germination. Pre-monsoon sowing with medium duration variety is an advantage for higher grain yield and as well to manage the heavy rainy season. Weed Management First weeding should be done between 15 and 21 days after germination. Second weeding may be done 30 - 45 days after first weeding. Apply pendimethalin 1.0kg/ha on 5 days after sowing or Pretilachlor + safener (Sofit) 0.45kg/ha on the day of receipt of soaking rain followed by one hand weeding on 30 to 35 days after sowing. Water Management The crop is irrigated from 30-35 days onwards, utilizing water impounded in the tanks or canal. Irrigation may be to a depth of 2.5-5.0cm only. Follow the schedule of one day after disappearance of ponded water in order to save water and to bring additional this type of rice cultivation. Top Hybrid seed production The success and sustenance of hybrid rice technology depends on the efficient and economic hybrid seed production, so as to provide good quality seed at reasonable price to the farmers. Hybrid seed production, in self pollinated crop like rice, is quite tedious. Therefore, extensive trials were conducted to standardize the seed production package. Various requirements for successful seed production such as ideal locations/seasons, seed rate, row ratio, GA3, supplementary pollination techniques etc., have been worked out and a seed production package has been developed. The details of the package are as under. Optimum package for hybrid rice seed production and CMS multiplication Activity Particulars Seed rate : Seed parent 15 kg/ha Pollen parent 5 kg/ha Nursery : Sparse seeding to ensure multitillered (4-5) seedlings in 25 days Row ratio : 2B:10A, for CMS multiplication 2R:12A, for hybrid seed production Number of seedlings/hill : 2 seedlings/hill for seed parent and 3 seedlings/hill for pollen parent Spacing : B/R to B/R - 30 cm B/R to A - 20 cm A to A - 15 cm GA3 application : 45 g/ha at 5% heading in two split doses on consecutive days Supplementary pollination : Twice a day at peak anthesis during flowering phase Roguing : Twice during vegetative phase based on morphological characters and twice during and after flowering based on floral characters sterility etc. Seed yield (t/ha) : 1.0-1.5 Land selection: The selected land should not have been cultivated with the same variety in the previous season and the land should be free from volunteer plants. The land should have good drainage facilities, sunshine and wind flow. Since cross pollination has to take place through wind, adequate wind flow is required. Sowing Season: Kharif - (May- June sowing) Rabi - (December- January sowing) December – January sowing is most favourable for getting quality seeds. Pre Sowing Seed Treatment: Dormancy breaking treatment: Seeds are soaked in KNo3 0.5% for 16 hrs. Seed hardening treatments: Paddy seeds are soaked in 1%KCL solution for 10 hours in 1:1 ratio. Then they dried back to the original moisture content then the seed are treated with captan / thiram @ 4g/kg and also with azospirillum / azotobacter @ 3 pockets / acre seeds. Nursery: For a nursery of 40m2, apply 2 kg of DAP and sow male and female seeds at 1 kg / 40 m2 (1 cent) sparsely in separate nurseries. Because of DAP application and sparse sowing, vigorous seedlings can be obtained within 20 days. Row Ratio : The optimum age of seedlings for transplanting in the main field is 18-21 days. Use 2-3 seedlings per hill for transplanting of male seedlings. One well developed seedling with 2-3 tillers is preferred for planting of female line. The female and male seedlings are transplanted at 8:2 ratio simultaneously in the main field. Row ratio and spacing of A and R lines in the main field Female and male seedlings have to be planted by adopting the following spacing. Spacing : Female x Female - 10×15 cm Female x Male - 20 cm Male x Male - 30 × 15cm Roguing : In the male and female rows, roguing is essential from the initial stage.Rogueing should be done based on the plant height, flowering behaviour, flower colour and pollen colour. In the female rows, rogue out all the pollen shedders. Normally, in the female parent 40-50 per cent of seed set is possible. If there is a plant with more than 75 per cent seed set, that may be a pollen shedder or off-type, which has to be immediately rogued out. Supplementary pollination : Rope pulling or rod driving for 10 days from 20% flowering is done at 10-12 noon and 3-4 p.m. for one week to facilitate pollen dispersal and effective pollination. Application of Gibberellin : GA3 is one of the essential requirements for hybrid seed production and it is a costly input. Therefore, efforts are being made to find some alternate chemicals or substitutes to economize GA3 use. Initial results have indicated that GA3 requirement can be reduced by using some chemicals such as ZnSO4, urea and boric acid in combination with lower doses of GA3.Such studies will help to reduce the cost of seed production thus helping the farmers to get the hybrid seed at reasonable cost which is now being sold @ Rs. 90-100/kg. Advantages of GA3 application : Enhances panicle and stigma exertion, Adjusts plant height of seed and pollen parents, Speed up the growth of late tillers and increases the effective tillers. Sets uniform panicle layer, Flag leaf angle is increased, Increases 1000 grain weight, Reduced unfilled grains, Remarkably enhances seed setting and seed yield. Synchronisation of flowering : The optimum standard of synchronization flowering is that the female parent should be 2 days earlier than the male parent.If the differences in the predicted flowering date is more than 3 days between the parental lines, then adjustment is needed. If the flowering is to be delayed in female line, spray 2% urea (2g in 100ml of water) solution with knapsack sprayer on male parent to induce vegetative growth. If the flowering is to be hastened, apply 1% Di Ammonium Phosphate solution to induce flowering. If the male male parent is late in flowering, it can be advanced by increasing the water level in the field. Draining the water will delay the flowering. Harvesting : At fully mature stage, harvest the male parent first and remove from the field and then harvest the hybrid seed in female parent. Threshing and drying : Hybrid seeds are very delicate in nature and so are highly vulnerable to mechanical injury. Manual threshing when the seed moisture is between 15 and 18 per cent will minimize mechanical injury. Hybrid seeds can be threshed using mechanical thresher with careful adjustments to reduce injury. The seeds can be dried to 12 per cent moisture for safe storage. Seed yield : Seed producers can obtain seed yields of about 1.0 to 1.5 t/ha by adopting this package. There is a need to refine the present technology so as to enhance the seed yields up to 2.0 to 2.5 t/ha so that the seed cost can be reduced. Seed production in varieties Land requirement : The selected land should not have been cultivated with same variety in the previous season and the land should be free from volunteer plants. Isolation distance : Rice is mainly a self pollinated crop. For pure seed production, the seed fields must be isolated at least by 3 meters from rice fields of other varieties. Season : Varieties Suitable Season Short duration (105-110 days) November-December Mediumduration (110-125 days) November Long duration(125-145 days) August Seed rate: Short duration - 60 kg/ha Medium duration - 40 kg/ha Long duration - 30 kg/ha Upgradation of seed quality using salt solution : The density of stored seed diminishes during storage period, place, environment and pest and diseases. Aged seeds like used battery cells will loose vigour in due course of time. Using salt solution, good quality, denser and vigorous seeds can be separated. Seed treatment : Seeds treated with a fungicide like bavistin or captan @ 2g/kg and kept overnight before sowing in the nursery. Nursery : Good management of the nursery will result in vigorous seedlings and also in controlling the occurrence of offtypes in the seed crop. The land on which rice nursery or rice crop was not grown in the previous season should be selected to prevent offtypes. If the previous crop was rice, then the nursery plot should be flooded with water to trigger germination of buried seeds and such germinated seedlings can be destroyed by ploughing the field after one week. Fertile soil with adequate drainage is essential for good nursery. Nursery sowing: For sowing 50 kg of seeds required for one ha, a nursery area of 800 m2 is required. The soil of nursery should be well pulverized by 2-4 ploughings and during last ploughing one tonne of farm yard manure should be applied. Nursery beds of 40m2 area are prepared. Seeds are pre-germinated before sowing. For pregermination, the seeds are soaked in water for 12 hours and soaked seeds are loosely packed in gunny bag and then placed in darkness for 24 hours for sprouting. During the pregermination process, radicles would have protruded out of the seeds. The water used for soaking should be pure. Already used water should not be used for soaking to avoid the spread of diseases through seeds. Age of seedlings: Age of seedlings plays an important role in the growth of crop. A too young or too old seedling leads to reduction of yield. Based on the duration of the varieties, the age of seedlings suitable for transplantation varies. Varieties Age of seedlings Short duration 13-22 days Medium duration 25-30 days Long duration 35-40 days Preparation of main field for transplanting : Spread 25 tonnes of FYM on the field which selected for seed production. Then the field is irrigated and the land is ploughed 2 or 3 times and puddled. Before last puddling, urea, super phosphate and Murate of Potast are applied basally as per the following table: Basal application of fertilizers in different varieties Varieties Urea (Kg) Super phosphate (Kg) MOP (Kg) Short duration 50 125 20 Medium duration 50 125 30 Long duration 50 125 40 For zinc deficient fields, basal application of zinc sulphate @ 30 kg/ha is recommended. After last ploughing, the fields are well levelled. Spacing for different rice varieties : Varieties Spacing (cm) Short duration 20×10 Medium duration 20×15 Long duration 20×20 In the main field, after each 8 feet, a gap of one foot is to be left which is required for easy rouging. This is called rouging space. Water management : Water level upto a height of 2 cm should be maintained for a period of one week after transplantation. On 30th day, water should be drained off completely for one or two days. This enables aeration in soil and increases root growth. During tillering stage a water level of 5 cm should be maintained. During booting, flowering and milking stages, water stress should be avoided. During maturity stage, 15 days before harvest, water is drained off completely from the field. Weed Control: Within three days after transplantation, herbicide butachlor @ 2.5 lit ha-1 mixed with 20 kg sand should be applied to the field. Use of rotary weeder from 15 DAT at 10 days interval. After 30-35 days, a hand weeding is essential. Fertilizer application: After first weeding and during flowering stage, urea is applied and during milky stage, muriate of potash is applied. The dosage of fertilizer depends upon the duration of the crop. Rouging: Normally in rice fields, non-uniform height and differences in flowering among plant population is observed. The crop of the same variety cannot show such variations and so this shows the contamination of the seed field with some other varieties which affect the genetic purity of the seed crop. Also, certain weeds grow along with the crop seeds. Similarly some field fungi cause seed infection in the field itself. The off-type plants, weeds and diseased plants should be rogued out at appropriate stage preferably before flowering. By this, genetic purity of the seeds can be maintained. Stage of crop Rogues to be removed Before flowering Very tall or short plants, early flowering plants. Flowering stage Late flowering plants, chaffy grains Pre-harvest stage Awned grains Harvest stage Based on seed size, shape and colour Foliar application: Spraying 2 per cent DAP results in higher seed yield with good quality. Depending upon the duration of the crop, the stage for DAP spray also varies. Appropriate stage for harvesting: Harvesting of seed crop at correct stage is essential. Otherwise, seed yield will be greatly reduced. If the seeds are harvested at premature stage, the seeds get shrunk (during drying), thereby reducing the germination capacity. Delayed harvest results in discoloration of seeds besides inviting pest and disease incidence.During maturity stage, 90 per cent of seeds would have acquired straw colour and seed moisture content will be 17-20 per cent. Threshing without mechanical injuries: The seed moisture content should be 15 to 18 per cent during threshing. If the seed moisture content is more or less than this level, the chances of mechanical injuries are more. These invisible injuries will reduce seed viability and increase disease incidence on the seeds. Seed drying: Threshed seeds should be dried immediately in a systematic manner. Otherwise deterioration due to high respiration rate may occur. If the seeds are heaped without drying, temperature of the seeds may increase. Optimum time for drying the seeds under sun is 8.00 am to 12.00 noon and 3.00p.m. to 5.00p.m. Drying of seeds during 12.00 noon to 3.00p.m. should be avoided as the incidence of UV rays from the sun is more besides temperature being high during this time. Continuous drying of seeds from morning to evening under sun should be avoided. The seeds should be spread evenly every day after sun drying allowing free aeration otherwise, heating will occur resulting in lowering of seed quality. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Schemes and Institutes HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US Institutes Schemes Schemes and Institutes Indian Government, at all levels, announces Welfare Schemes for a cross section of the society from time to time. These Schemes could be either Central, State specific or a Joint collaboration between the Centre and the States. In this section, we have attempted to provide you with easy and single point access to information about several welfare schemes of the Government and their various aspects including eligible beneficiaries, types of benefits, scheme details etc. An institute is a permanent organizational body created for a certain purpose. Often it is a research organization (research institution) created to do research on specific topics. CRRI has been given the responsibility of conducting research on all aspects of rice and transfer of technology. The institute not only played a key role in ushering the country of an ear of green revolution heading to self-sufficiency in food grain supply in about 25 years from its inception, but also brought glory to the national by providing research support in rice to become the second largest exporter of rice in the world in the recent years. IRRI, or the International Rice Research Institute, is a nonprofit independent research and training organization. IRRI develops new rice varieties and rice crop management techniques that help rice farmers improve the yield and quality of their rice in an environmentally sustainable way. We work with our public and private sector partners in national agricultural research and extension systems in major rice-growing countries to do research, training, and knowledge transfer. Our social and economic research also informs governments to help them formulate policy to improve the equitable supply of rice. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Planting Seasons HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US TAMIL NADU KERALA KARNATAKA Planting Seasons Planting Seasons in Tamil Nadu Navarai Month of Sowing Duration (Days) Suitable varieties Cultivating places Dec - Jan < 120 Short duration varieties Tiruvallur, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Tiruchirapalli, Perambalur, Karur, Nagapattinam, Madurai, Theni, Salem, Namakkal, Dindigul, Dharmapuri, Coimbatore, Erode and Pudukkottai districts. Top Sornavari Month of Sowing Duration (Days) Suitable varieties Cultivating places Apr - May < 120 Short duration varieties Tiruvallur, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Namakkal and Dharmapuri districts. Top Kar Month of Sowing Duration (Days) Suitable varieties Cultivating places May - June < 120 Short duration varieties Tirunelveli, Kanyakumari, Tuticorin, Erode, Coimbatore, Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Salem, Namakkal and Dharmapuri districts. Top Kuruvai Month of Sowing Duration (Days) Suitable varieties Cultivating places June - July < 120 Short duration varieties Tiruchirapalli, Perambalur, Karur, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai and Erode districts. Top Early Samba Month of Sowing Duration (Days) Suitable varieties Cultivating places July - Aug 130 to 135 Medium and long duration varieties Tiruvallur, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Salem, Namakkal, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Madurai, Theni, Ramanathapuram, Dharmapuri, Coimbatore, Erode, Pudukkottai and Nilgiris districts. Top Samba Month of Sowing Duration (Days) Suitable varieties Cultivating places August 130 – 135 and >150 Medium and long duration varieties All districts Top Late Samba/Thaladi/Pishanam/Late Pishanam Month of Sowing Duration (Days) Suitable varieties Cultivating places Sept - Oct 130 – 135 Medium and long duration varieties Tiruvallur, Madurai, Theni, Coimbatore, Erode, Dindigul, Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts. Top Late Thaladi Month of Sowing Duration (Days) Suitable varieties Cultivating places Oct - Nov 115 -120 Medium and long duration varieties Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Tiruchirapalli, Perambalur and Karur districts. Top Planting Seasons in Kerala Virippu (I crop / autumn) Period Region / kind of land Suitable Varieties From To April - May Sept - Oct Upland (Modan land), Palliyals (Myals), Pokkali area, Deep ill-drained regions of southern districts, Waterlogged and flooded areas, Onattukara and coastal sandy areas and Chitoor black soil areas. Short and Medium duration varieties are preferred. Top Mundakan (II crop / winter) Period Region / kind of land Suitable Varieties From To Sept - Oct Dec - Jan Double crop wet lands, Deep ill-drained regions of southern districts, Oorumundakan , Onattukara, coastal sandy areas, kole area (single cropped area), Kaippad, Eastern lateritic regions of Kollam, Alappuzha districts and Chitoor black soil Short, Medium and Long duration varieties are preferred. Top Puncha (III crop / summer) Period Region / kind of land Suitable Varieties From To Dec - Jan Mar - Apr Double crop wet lands, Kuttanad area, Kaippad, Onattukara, high ranges and coastal sandy areas Short and Medium duration varieties are preferred. Top Planting Seasons in Karnataka Kharif Month Sowing Time Suitable varieties Cultivating places April – September Up to June Short, Medium and Long duration varieties. North-East Transition and dry zone, North-East and Northern dry zone, Northern Transition zone, Heavy rainfall (malnad) region. Top Rabi Month Sowing Time Suitable varieties Cultivating places October – December Up to last week of October Short and Medium duration varieties. Coastal region Top Summer/Zaid Month Sowing Time Suitable varieties Cultivating places January – March Up to last week of January Short and Medium duration varieties. North-East Transition and dry zone, North-East and Northern dry zone, Northern Transition zone, Heavy rainfall (malnad) region. Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Season and Varieties HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US SEASON VARIETIES Season and Varieties Tamil Nadu Kanchipuram/Tiruvallur Vellore/Tiruvannamalai Cuddalore/Villupuram Tiruchirappalli/Karur/Perambalur Thanjavur/Nagapattinam/Tiruvarur Pudukottai Madurai/Dindigul/Theni Ramanathapuram Virudhunagar Sivagangai Tirunelveli/Thoothukudi Kanyakumari Salem/Namakkal Dharmapuri/Krishnagiri Coimbatore Erode Nilgiris Kerala Karnataka North Eastern Transition Zone North Eastern Dry Zone Northern Dry Zone Central Dry Zone Eastern Dry Zone Southern dry Zone Southern Transition Zone Northern Transition Zone Hill Zone Coastal Zone Season and Varieties in Tamil Nadu Kanchipuram / Tiruvallur Season Month Varieties Sornavari April - May ADT 36, IR 36, IR 50, ADT 37, ASD 16, ASD 17, IR 64, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, ADT43, CO 47, TRY (R)2*, ADT (R) 45, ADTRH 1, ADT (R) 47 Samba August IR 20, White Ponni, CO 43, ADT 40, PY 4, ADT 39, TRY 1, ASD 19, ADT(R) 44, CORH 2 Late Samba September - October IR 20, White Ponni, ADT 39, CO 43, TRY 1, ADT (R)46, CORH 2 Navarai Dec - Jan ADT 36, ADT 37, ASD 16, IR 64, ASD 18, ADT 42, ADT 43 MDU 5, ASD 20 Dry July - Aug PMK 2, MDU 5, TKM 11, PMK (R) 3, TKM (R) 12 Semi-dry July - Aug IR 20, TKM 10, PMK 2, MDU 5, TKM 11, TKM (R) 12,PMK (R)3 Top Vellore / Tiruvannamalai Season Month Varieties Sornavari April - May IR 64, ADT 36, IR 50, ADT 37, ASD 16, ASD 17, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, ADT 43, CO 47, ADT (R) 45, ADT RH1, ADT (R) 47 Samba August Ponmani, ADT 40, Bhavani, IR 20, White Ponni, CO 43, Paiyur 1, PY 4, CO 45, TRY 1, ASD 19, CORH 2 Navarai Dec - Jan ADT 36, IR 20, ADT 39, CO 43, IR 64, ASD 16, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, CO 47, ASD 20, TRY (R)2* Top Cuddalore / Villupuram Season Month Varieties Sornavari April - May ADT 36, IR 50, ASD 16, IR 64, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5,ASD20, ADT 43, CO 47, ADT (R) 45, TRY (R)2*, ADTRH 1,ADT (R) 47 Samba August IR 20, White Ponni, CO 43, Ponmani, PY 4, ADT 38, TRY 1, ASD 19, ADT (R) 44, CORH 2 Navarai Dec - Jan ADT 36, IR 20, IR 36, IR 64, ADT 39, ASD 16, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, TRY(R)2* Top Tiruchirappalli / Karur / Perambalur Season Month Varieties Kuruvai Jun - Jul ADT 36, IR 50, IR 64, ASD 16, ADT 37, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ADT 43, CO 47, ADT (R) 45 (except Karur), TRY (R)2*, ADTRH 1, ADT (R) 47 Samba August IR 20, White Ponni, CO 43, ADT 40, Ponmani, TRY 1, ASD 19, ADT (R) 44 Late Samba / Thaladi Sep - Oct IR20, White Ponni, ADT39, CO43, TRY1, ASD19, ADT(R)46 Navarai Dec - Jan ADT 36, IR 64, ASD 16, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20,TRY (R)2* Top Thanjavur / Nagapattinam / Tiruvarur Season Month Varieties Kuruvai Jun - Jul ADT 36, IR 50, IR 64, ADT 37, ASD 16, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ADT 43, ADT (R) 45, TRY (R) 2*, ADTRH 1, ADT (R) 47, ADT (R) 48 Samba August IR 20, White Ponni, CO 43, Ponmani, ADT 38, TRY 1, ASD 19, ADT (R) 44, CORH 2 Late Samba / Thaladi Sep - Oct ADT 38, IR 20, CO 43, Ponmani, ADT 39, TRY 1, ASD 19, ADT (R)46 Navarai Dec - Jan ADT 36, ADT 37, IR 64, ASD 16, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, TRY (R)2* Top Pudukottai Season Month Varieties Kuruvai Jun - Jul ADT 36, IR 50, IR 64, ASD 16, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, ADT 43, ADT (R) 45, TRY (R) 2*, ADTRH 1, ADT (R) 47 Samba August IR 20, White Ponni, CO 43, Ponmani, TRY 1, ASD 19, ADT (R) 44, CORH 2 Late Samba / Thaladi Sep - Oct IR 20, ADT 38, ADT 39, TRY 1, ASD 19, CO 43, ADT (R)46 Dry Jul - Aug ADT 36, PMK 2, TKM 10, TKM (R) 12, PMK (R) 3 Semi-dry Jul - Aug ADT 36, PMK 2, TKM 10, TKM (R) 12, PMK (R) 3 Top Madurai / Dindigul / Theni Season Month Varieties Kar May - Jun ADT 36, IR 50, IR 36, IR 64, ADT 37, ASD 16, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, ADT 43, CO 47, ADT (R) 45 (Dindigul only), TRY (R) 2*, ADTRH 1, ADT (R) 47 Samba Aug IR 20, White Ponni, CO 42, CO 43, ADT 38, ADT 40, MDU 4, TRY 1, ASD 19, ADT (R) 44, CORH 2 Late Samba / Thaladi Sep - Oct IR 20, White Ponni, MDU 3, ADT 39, MDU 4, CO 43, ASD 19, TRY 1, ADT (R)46 Navarai Dec - Jan IR 64, ADT 36, ADT 37, ASD 16, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, TRY (R) 2* Semi-dry Jul - Aug PMK 2, TKM 10, MDU 5, TKM (R) 12, PMK (R) 3 Top Ramanathapuram Season Month Varieties Samba Aug IR 20, White Ponni, CO 43, MDU 3, ASD 19, TRY 1, ADT (R) 44, CORH 2 Rainfed and Semidry Jul - Aug ASD 17, ADT 36, PMK 2, MDU 5, TKM (R) 12, PMK (R) 3 Top Virudhunagar Season Month Varieties Samba Sep - Oct CO 43, TRY 1, IR 20, ADT (R)46, ADT 39, CORH 2 Dry Jul - Aug ADT 36, PMK 2, MDU 5, TKM (R) 12, PMK (R) 3 Top Sivagangai Season Month Varieties Semi Dry Jul - Aug ADT 36, IR 36, ADT 39, PMK 2, MDU 5, TKM (R) 12, PMK (R) 3 Top Tirunelveli / Thoothukudi Season Month Varieties Early Kar April - May IR 50, ADT 36, IR 64, ADT 42, ADT 43, ADT 45, CO 47, ADT (R) 47 Kar May - Jun ASD 16, ASD 17, ASD 18, ADT 42, ADT 43, CO 47, ADT (R) 45, TRY (R) 2*, ADTRH 1, ADT (R) 47 Late Samba/Thaladi Sep - Oct White Ponni, IR 20, ADT 39, ASD 19, TRY 1, ADT (R)46, CORH 2 Pishanam/Late Pishanam Sep - Oct ASD 18, ASD 16, ASD 19, CO 43, TRY 1, ADT (R)46 Semi Dry July - Aug MDU 5, ADT 36, TKM (R) 12, PMK (R) 3 Top Kanyakumari Season Month Varieties Kar May – Jun ADT 36, IR 50, IR 64, ASD 16, ASD 17, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, ADT 43, ADT 45, CO 47, ADTRH 1, ADT(R) 47 Pishanam / Late Samba / Thaladi Sept – Oct White Ponni, IR 20, Ponmani, CO 43, TRY 1, TPS 2, TPS 3, ADT (R) 44, ADT 39, ASD 18, ASD 19, MDU 5, ADT (R) 46 Semi-dry Jul – Aug ADT 36, ASD 17, PMK 2, TKM (R) 12, PMK (R) 3 Top Salem / Namakkal Season Month Varieties Kar May – Jun IR 50, ADT 36,IR 64, ADT 37, ASD 16, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, ADT 43, CO 47, ADT(R) 45, TRY (R)2*, ADTRH1, ADT (R) 47 Samba Aug White Ponni, IR 20, Ponmani, CO 43, TRY 1, TPS 2, TPS 3, ADT (R) 44, ADT 39, ASD 18, ASD 19, MDU 5, ADT (R) 46 Navarai Dec - Jan ADT 36, ASD 17, PMK 2, TKM (R) 12, PMK (R) 3 Top Dharmapuri / Krishnagiri Season Month Varieties Kar May – Jun IR 50, IR 64, ASD 16, Bhavani, IR 20, White Ponni, CO 43, ASD 18, MDU 4, ASD 19, PAIYUR 1, ADT 42, TRY 1, MDU 5, ASD 20, ADT 43, CO 47, ADTRH 1, TRY (R)2*, ADT (R) 47 Navarai Dec - Jan IR 64, ADT 37, ASD 16, ADT 36, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, TRY (R)2* Samba / Late Samba Aug - Oct TRY 1, Bhavani, IR 20, White Ponni, CO 43, MDU 4, ASD 19, ADT (R) 44, ADT (R) 46 Top Coimbatore Season Month Varieties Kar May - Jun IR 50, ADT 36, ASD 16, IR 64, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, ADT 43,CO 47,ADT (R) 45,TRY (R)2*, ADTRH 1, ADT(R) 47 Samba August IR 20, CO 43, White Ponni, ADT 39, MDU 4, TRY 1, ASD 19, Bhavani, ADT(R) 44, CORH 2 Late Samba / Thaladi Sep - Oct IR 20, ADT 39, ADT(R) 46, CORH 2 Navarai Dec - Jan IR 20, ADT 36, IR 64, ASD 16, ASD 18, TRY1, MDU 5, ASD 20, TRY (R) 2* Top Erode Season Month Varieties Kar May - Jun IR 50, ASD 16, IR 64, ADT 36, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20, ADT 43, CO, 47, ADT (R) 45, TRY (R)2*, ADTRH 1, ADT (R) 47 Samba August IR 20, Bhavani, CO 43, White Ponni, ADT 39, TRY 1, CO 46, ADT (R) 44 Late Samba / Thaladi Sep - Oct IR 20, White Ponni, ADT 39, CO 43, TRY 1, CO 46, ADT (R) 46, CORH 2 Navarai Dec - Jan IR 20, ADT 36, IR 64, ASD 16, ASD 18, ADT 42, MDU 5, ASD 20 Top The Nilgiris Season Month Varieties Samba Jul - Aug IR 20, CO 43, TRY 1, ADT (R) 44 Top Season and Varieties in Kerala Region / kind of land Seasons Period Varieties From To Upland (Modan land) Purely rainfed Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct PTB 28, PTB 29, PTB 30, Suvarnamodan, Annapurna, Mattatriveni, Swarnaprabha, Rohini, Aiswarya Palliyals (Myals) Single crop terraced Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct Early duration: Rohini, Annapurna, Mattatriveni, Jyothy, Kairali, Kanchana, Harsha, Karthika, Ahalya Medium duration: Aswathy, Sabari, Bharathy, Jaya, Mahsuri, Aiswarya, Aathira Double crop wet lands : a. Semi-dry cultivation Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct Early duration: Mattatriveni, Annapurna, Jyothy, Swarnaprabha, Ahalya, Varsha, Rohini, Karthika, Revathy, Remanika, Krishnanjana, Kanchana, Harsha, Kairali, Kunjukunju Varna, Kunjukunju Priya Medium duration: Aswathy, Sabari, Bharathy, Jaya, Mahsuri, Arathy, Remya, Kanakom, Ranjini, Pavithra, Panchami, Uma, Karishma, Aathira, Aiswarya, Pavizham, Bhadra Mundakan (II crop / winter) Sept - Oct Dec - Jan Any of the varieties suggested for the first crop seasons (except Rohini) b. Transplanted Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct Early duration: Annapurna, Mattatriveni, Jyothy, Swarnaprabha, Kairali, Kanchana, Karthika, Aruna, Makom, Revathy, Remanika, Krishnanjana, Varsha, Rohini, Ahalya, Kunjukunju Varna, Kunjukunju Priya. Medium duration: Jaya, Sabari, Bharathy, Aswathy, Mahsuri, Aathira, Aiswarya, Pavizham, Remya, Kanakom, Renjini, Pavithra, Panchami, Uma, Karishma. Late duration: Mangalamahsuri, Pranava Mundakan (II crop / winter) Sept - Oct Dec - Jan Early duration: Annapurna, Mattatriveni, Jyothy, Kairali, Kanchana, Karthika, Makom, Revathy, Remanika, Krishnanjana Kunjukunju Varna, Kunjukunju Priya Medium duration: Aswathy, Sabari, Bharathy, Jaya, Mahsuri, Aathira, Aiswarya, Pavizham, Remya, Kanakom, Renjini, Pavithra, Panchami, Uma, Karishma Late duration: Mangalamahsuri, Karuna, Resmi, Nila, Makaram, Khumbham, Dhanu Puncha (III crop / summer) Dec - Jan Mar - Apr Early duration: Annapurna, Mattatriveni, Jyothy, Swarnaprabha, Kairali, Kanchana, Karthika, Makom, Revathy, Remanika, Krishnanjana, Ahalya, Harsha, Varsha Medium duration: Sabari, Bharathy, Jaya, Aathira, Aiswarya, Pavizham, Remya, Kanakom, Renjini, Pavithra, Panchami, Uma, Karishma Kuttanad area Puncha Oct-Nov Feb-March Early duration: Karthika, Makom, Aruna, Jyothy, Mattatriveni, Annapurna, Revathy, Remanika, Krishnanjana Medium duration: Bhadra, Asha, Pavizham, Remya, Kanakom, Jaya, Sabari, Bharathy, Renjini, Pavithra, Panchami, Uma, Karishma, Gowri Additional crop May - June Aug-Sept Early duration: Karthika, Aruna, Makom, Annapurna, Jyothy, Mattatriveni, Revathy, Remanika, Krishnanjana Medium duration: Pavizham, Remya, Kanakom, Jaya, Sabari, Renjini, Pavithra, Panchami, Uma, Karishma Kole area Mundakan (II crop / winter) Sept - Oct Dec - Jan Extra short duration: Hraswa Early duration: Annapurna, Mattatriveni, Jyothy, Swarnaprabha, Karthika, Aruna, Makom, Kanchana, Kairali, Revathy, Remanika, Krishnanjana, Ahalya, Varsha Medium duration: Aswathy, Sabari, Bharathy, Pavizham, Remya, Kanakom, Jaya, Aiswarya, Renjini, Pavithra, Panchami, Uma, Karishma, Bhadra Pokkali area Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct Vyttila-1, Vyttila-2, Vyttila-3, Vyttila-4, Vyttila-5 Deep ill-drained regions of southern districts Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct Remya, Arathy Mundakan (II crop / winter) Sept - Oct Dec - Jan Kottarakkara-1, Lakshmi, Nila, Makaram, Kumbham, Mangalamahsuri Waterlogged and flooded areas Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct IR-5, Pankaj, Jagannath, H4, Mahsuri, Neeraja, Mangalamahsuri Oorumundakan Mundakan (II crop / winter) Sept - Oct Dec - Jan Late duration: Sagara Onattukara and coastal sandy areas a. Where HYVs do not come up Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct PTB 23 Mundakan (II crop / winter) Sept - Oct Dec - Jan PTB 20 b. Where HYVs come up well Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct Early duration: Annapurna, Mattatriveni, Jyothy, Bhagya, Rohini, Onam, Aruna, Makom, Karthika, Revathy, Remanika, Krishnanjana Medium duration: Jaya, Sabari, Bharathy, Aswathy, Pavizham, Remya, Kanakom, Arathy, Renjini, Pavithra, Panchami, Uma, Karishma, Chingam Mundakan (II crop / winter) Sept - Oct Dec - Jan Early Duration: Annapurna, Mattatriveni, Makom, Jyothy, Karthika, Revathy, Remanika, Krishnanjana Medium duration: Jaya, Sabari, Bharathy, Aswathi, Pavizham, Remya, Kanakom, Dhanya (season bound), Renjini, Pavithra, Panchami, Uma, Karishma. Puncha (III crop / summer) Dec - Jan Mar - Apr Annapurna, Mattatriveni, Rohini, Makom, Revathi, Remanika, Krishnanjana. Medium duration: Jaya, Sabari, Bharathy, Aswathy, Pavizham, Remya, Kanakom, Renjini, Pavithra, Panchami, Uma, Karishma Poonthalpadam High altitude area: a. Single crop areas Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct Makom, Mattatriveni, Neeraja WND-1, WND-2, Aswathy, Jaya, Sabari, Mahsuri, Bhadra, IR 8, Aathira b. Double crop areas Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct Aswathy, Jaya, Sabari, Bharathy. Bhadra, Deepthi, Aathira, IR 8 Mundakan (II crop / winter) Sept - Oct Dec - Jan Aswathy, Jaya, Sabari, Bharathy. Bhadra, Deepthi, Aathira, IR 8 c. Eastern lateritic regions of Kollam & Alappuzha districts Mundakan (II crop / winter) Sept - Oct Dec - Jan Lakshmi Chitoor black soil Virippu (I crop / autumn) April - May Sept - Oct ASD 16, ASD 17, Mahsuri, Varsha, ADT 43 Mundakan (II crop / winter) Sept - Oct Dec - Jan Ponni, Vellaponni, Ponmani, ASD 16, ASD 17, Pranava, Karuna, Swetha, Bhadra Top Season and Varieties in Karnataka North Eastern Transition Zone Season Varieties Kharif Jaya, Rasi ,Prakash ,IR - 20, Puspha, Madhu ,Mangala, Mandya Rani, Karna, Pragathi Summer Jaya, madhu, pragathi, IR-20, Pushpa, mangala, Mandya Rani Top North Eastern Dry Zone Season Varieties Kharif Jaya, Rasi ,Prakash ,IR - 20, Puspha, Madhu ,Mangala, Mandya Rani, Karna, Pragathi Summer Jaya, madhu, pragathi, IR-20, Pushpa, mangala, Mandya Rani Top Northern Dry Zone Season Varieties Kharif Jaya, Prakash, IR-20, Puspha, Madhu, Mangala, Mandya Rani, Karna, Avinash/Gama -318, Pragathi Summer Jaya, madhu, pragathi, IR-20, pushpa, mangala, Mandya Rani, KSP-39, massuri, Tellahamsa Top Central Dry Zone Season Varieties Kharif Rasi, Mangala, Tellahamsa, Prakash, pragathi, IR 30 864 Summer Rasi, Mangala, Tellahamsa Top Eastern Dry Zone Season Varieties Kharif Pushpa, Karna, IR-20, Rasi, Mangala, Tellahamsa Summer Rasi, Mangala, Tellahamsa Top Southern dry Zone Season Varieties Kharif Pushpa, Karna, IR-20, Rasi, Mangala, Tellahamsa, Prakash, Pragathi, IR-30-864 Summer Rasi, Mangala, Tellahamsa Top Southern Transition Zone Season Varieties Kharif KRH-2, IR-30 864, Jaya, Mandya Rani Summer KRH-1, IR-20, Rasi, Mangala, Jyothi Top Northern Transition Zone Season Varieties Kharif Jaya, Rasi, Mangala, Mandya Rani, Karna, Avinash/Gama -318, MTU1001/Vijetha, Jothi, Amrut, Abilash, Intan, Karnataka Rice Hybrid-2 (KRH-2), IR-30-864, KRH-1, IR-20. Summer KRH-1, IR-20, Rasi, Mangala, Jyothi Top Hill Zone Season Varieties Kharif Intan, Hemavathi, KHP-2, Gama-318, Karna, Jaya, IR-20 Summer Madhu, IR-20, Mangala Top Coastal Zone Season Varieties Rabi Mathaveer, Shakthi, Phalgunai, Latha, Netravathi, MO-4, Mukthi, Jyothi, Jaya Top Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Varieties HOME ABOUT US CONTACT US TAMIL NADU KERALA KARNATAKA Paddy Varieties India is an important center of rice cultivation. The two major rice varieties grown worldwide today are Oryza sativa indica and Oryza sativa japonica. Historians believe that the indica variety of rice was first domesticated in the area covering the foothills of the Eastern Himalayas. More than 140,000 varieties of cultivated rice (the grass family Oryza sativa) are thought to exist but the exact number remains a mystery. Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
