Ragi Expert System Home About UsContact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links About Ragi Commonly called Ragi in India, this millet is staple food for the rural folk of south India. In India,Karnataka and Tamilnadu are the principle Ragi growing states, besides Andhra Pradesh, Maharastra, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. In India, there are two species of Finger millet, viz., Wild species, Eleusine indica and cultivated species, Eleusine coracana. Whole grains are usually ground and sued to make porridges, puddings, cakes and pancakes. A common food for people in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu is known as ‘Mudde or Ragi Sankati. Ragi dosa, ragi roti, ragi balls, biscuits, crispys and bread are common preparations made in Southern states. Grains are soaked and fermented foods are also prepared. Beverages made of malted ragi are popular in South India. Katti is a special dish prepared from ragi powder by Keralities in Idukki and other districts. Husk from finger millet is used in underground storage, as packaging material in pillows and cushions. Ragi straw is a good fodder, plus it is used in preparing beds for animals. Origin Ragi is mentioned in India by the ancient Sanskrit writers who refer to it as ‘Rajika’. It is suggested that Eleusine coracana is a cultigens of the wild species Eleusine indica (l.) Gaertn, domesticated by the early man in India. It was under cultivated before Aryans reached the Indian peninsula. DeCandolle (1886) to consider that Eleusine coracana originated in India, from where it spread to Arabia and Africa, nearly 3,000 years ago. Considering its predominant cultivation in southern India, this region is accepted to be the primary centre of its origin. However, Vavilov (1951) proposes that it originated in Abyssinia (Ethiopia). Mehra (1963) considers Eleusine coracana to be of African origin and has suggested an earlier migration of this crop plant from Africa to India by way of Soboean Lane. Eleusine indica is considered to be the immediate ancestor of the cultivated form Eleusine coracana. Ragi is a widely cultivated crop of the tropical and subtropical regions of the world, being grown in Africa, Madagascar, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, china and Japan besides large area in India. In India, it is an important cereal in Karnataka. It is extensively grown in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa, Bihar, Gujarat and Maharashtra and in the hilly regions of Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Ragi Expert System Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links About Us Objective : The proposed project aims development of expert system for crop and animal enterprises facilitating instant decision making process of the farmers through ICT enabled mechanism. The expert system will also be synchronized with the existing KVK e-linking system for its implementation. The specific objective of the project is to develop expert system for crop and animal enterprises for instsnt decision making. Lead Centre : Directorate of Research on Women in Agriculture, Bhuvaneshwar. Other Network Centres : Zonal Coordinating Unit, Zone VIII, Bangalore, Karnataka. Directorate of Extension Education, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. Directorate of Extension Education, TANUVASU, Chennai, Tamil Nadu. Resources Centres : Kannada - Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. Malayalam - C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram. Tamil - Anna University, Chennai. GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Ragi Expert System Home About UsContact Us Contact Us Sponsored by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi (2009-2012) Project Officer Dr.T.Manoharan, Professor (Agricultural Entomology) Research Team E.Vadivel (Former Project Officer, Precision Farming & e-Extension) R.Venkatachalam, ICT Co-ordinator N.Sriram, Assistant Professor (Agrl. Extn) N.Anandaraja, Assistant Professor (Agrl. Extn) I.Muthuvel, Assistant Professor (Horticulture) Research Fellows Content Development Team: Mrs. S. Mohana, JRF Mrs. N. Manoranjitham, SRF Mrs. P. Suhirdha, SRF Mrs. S.Gowsalya, SRF Software Development Team: Mr.R.S. Swamiappan, Programme Assistant (Computer) Mr. K. S.Gobinath, SRF Mr. M. Madankumar, SRF Mr. S.Karthick, SRF Ms. K. Meenambigai, SRF Ms. A. Sameembanu, SRF Mrs. S. Saranya, SRF Mrs. R. Gandhimathi, SRF Mrs. A. Seethalakshmi, SRF Mrs. P.Deepa, JRF Mrs. R. Jothi, JRF Ms. K. Kiruthika, SRF Ms. M. Saranya, JRF For further details: Contact: e-Extension Centre Technology Park 5 Directorate of Extension Education Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Coimbatore - 641 003 Ph: 0422-6611383, Fax: 0422-6611521 portal@tnau.ac.in / info@tnau.ac.in GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Ragi - Eleusine coracana Vernacular Names Classification of Ragi Parts of Ragi Plant Vernacular Names English: African Millet, Finger Millet Hindi: Ragi, Mandika, Marawah, Mandua Kannadam: Ragi Malayalam: Muthari, Ragi Tamil: Keppai, Ragi, Kelvaragu Telugu: Ragi, Chodi Top of page Classification of Ragi Kingdom: Plantae Division: Magnoliophyta Class: Liliopsida Order: Poales Family: Graminae Subfamily: Chloridoideae Genus: Eleusine Species: Coracana Top of page Parts of Ragi Plant Root Stem Leaf Panicle Spikelets Grain Root Ragi is having fibrous root system It is shallow, branched, rooting at lower nodes As the ragi grain germinates, the radical pierces its way out and forms the seminal root Lateral roots are formed from the seminal root As the seedlings begin to grow, fibrous roots arise from the basal nodes When seedlings are pulled out, most of the roots get torn off but very soon fresh roots develop Top of page Stem It is slender, erect, compressed, glaborous and smooth, sometimes branching The stem is compressed, elliptic and it is green in colour The plant is robust, free tillering, tufted annual grass up to 170 cm tall The stem is hollow at the internodes and solid at the nodes The lower internodes are short and the longest being the terminal node carrying the inflorescence Top of page Leaf The plant has a packing of a large number of leaves on short slender culms The leaves are arranged alternately on either side of the compressed elliptical culm and it is green in colour. The leaves are distichous, simple and entire The leaf sheath envelops the stem lore or less completely and very little of internodes are exposed. The leaf sheath is flattened, over lapping, split along the entire length The leaf blade has a prominent midrib, ligule, a fringe of hairs. Leaf blade is linear and taper to an acute point, folded and striated and often with ciliated margins. Ligule is 1 to 2 mm long, fimbriate Many of the well grown leaves have a tendency to snap and bend down about their upper middle and called as bent leaves The internodes of the culm are not of equal length. At the base of the stem, the nodes are often crowded are referred as ‘conjested nodes’. Two to four nodes get conjested together in the culms Top of page Panicle Inflorescence or Panicle is borne at the end of the vegetative shoot. It is branched with one or a few branches below the main cluster of 4-19 branches. It is borne on a long peduncle. The panicle consists of a variable number of spikes ranging from 3 to 20 arranged in a bird’s foot style. It resembles fingers on hand, hence its common name is finger millet and with an odd one a little lower down the whorl and called the thumb. The rachis of the spikes is flat The branches are slender to robust, linear to oblong, up to 24 cm long, each branch with 60-80 spikelets There are four types of panicle shapes, namely, (i) the top-curved, (ii) the in-curved, (iii) the open and (iv) the fisty In the in-curved, the fingers are short and curve in and practically close up the central hollowgiving the earhead an obovate shape In the top-curved, the curved fingers are longer with the result that they retain the central hollow In the open, the fingers are the longest and gape out and present a characteristic funnel-shaped appearance The fisty has the in-curved spikelets in a greater intensity of curving giving a roundish, fist-like appearance Top of page Spikelets The spikelets are carried on small rachillae at the ends of the branches of the panicle They are often curved, crowded, 2 to 4 flowered They are ovoid-ellipsoid, up to 10 mm They are sessile and arranged in 2 rows alternately attached to one side of the rachis Spikelets about 70 arranged alternately on rachis, each containing 4 to 7 seeds Each spikelet is 3 to 7 flowered enclosed by the lemma and palea The lower glume is ovate, obtuse and keeled with lateral nerve close to the keel The upper glume is similar, but slightly longer The lower 2 glumes are 1-4 mm long with 5-7 veined keels and it is barren Enclose bisexual flowers, but terminal ones sometimes sterile or male, arranged in two opposite rows and two lodicules each Flowering lemmas are broadly ovale, acute, three nerved and 2-5 mm long Palea slightly shorter than lemma, two keeled with the keel wings There are two lodicules broad and trunky Stamens three, ovary superior with two dsitinct free styles ending in plumose stigmas The four types of ear heads, not withstanding their varying finger lengths, do not present very marked differences in the number of spikelets on a finger. The average number of spikelets in a finger had been found to be 67 to 73 In each spikelet, the opening of the florets is from bottom to top and one floret in the spikelet opens per day. An earhead takes seven to eight days to complete its flowering Top of page Grain The grain is globose and smooth one with the pericarp thin, hyaline and loose The naked grain is more or less spherical in shape and the colour can be brown, reddish brown, black, orange red, purple and white The base of the grain is slightly flattened with a small depression called as hilum. The grain shows a slight flattening, which marks the position of the embryo The seed coats are developed from the two integuments of the ovule which are free from each other except at the base. The inner layer has cells which are twice as large as that of the outer layer in the initial stages The outer layer is thrown into a number of projections, probably as a result of shrinkage of cells and shows numerous more or less concentric configurations as seen in a mature grain Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Climate Ragi is an important food crop next to rice, wheat and maize. Ragi is valued as staple food in South India. It is predominately grown as a dry land crop in the peninsular Indian states of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Ragi is a crop of tropical and subtropical climate and can be grown successfully from sea level to an altitude of 2100 meters on hill slopes as well as in plains. It is very adaptable to higher elevations and is grown in the Himalaya up to 2,300 meters in elevation. It is a very hardy crop. It can be grown under rainfed as well as irrigated conditions. It grows best in moist climate. It is grown in areas with rainfall up to 100 cm. In regions of higher rainfall and under irrigation, it can also be grown as a transplanted crop. It is also raised as summer crop, and as Rabicrop in south India, but mainly as Kharifcrop in north India. Climatic Factors Latitude and Altitude Temperature Sunshine Rainfall Relative Humidity Wind Latitude and Altitude Most extensive ragi growing areas are within 450N of the equator In India ragi is grown under widely varying conditions of altitude and climate Ragi cultivation in India extends from 8 to 35°N latitude and from sea level to as high as 3000 meters elevation. It grows well in altitudes of 1000- 2000m above the mean sea level Top of page Temperature Ragi is a crop of tropical and subtropical climate, requires a fairly high temperature, ranging from 20 to 40° C The optimum temperature 32° C during day time and 25° C during night time seems to be more favourable for the development and growth of ragi crop Crop yields are reduced at temperatures below 20oC. The crop possesses good drought tolerance but is highly sensitive to frost. Growth Stages and Optimum temperature ranges Stage Optimum temperature (°C) Germination 25 - 32 Seedling emergence 25 - 30 Rooting 25 - 28 Leaf elongation 31 Tillering 25 - 31 Panicle initiation 15 - 30 Anthesis 30 - 33 Ripening 20 - 25 Top of page Sunshine Sunlight is very essential for the development and growth of the plants. The yield of ragi is influenced by the solar radiation particularly during the last 35 to 45 days of its ripening period. Bright sunshine with low temperature during ripening period of the crop helps in the development of in the grains. 300 cal /cm-2 /day is minimum required. Better yield is obtained when the Solar Radiation is 500-700 cal /cm-2 /day. Top of page Rainfall Rainfall has direct impact on deciding the ecosystem Ragi is suited for cultivation in areas with annual rainfall of 700-1200 mm. It does not tolerate heavy rainfall and requires a dry spell at the time of grain ripening Heavy downpour at anthesis and flowering leads to sterility If normal rainfall fails, yield will be reduced Top of page Relative Humidity Relative humidity is more during rainy days and dry weather prevails during non rainy days Relative humidity (RH) directly influences the water relations of plant and indirectly affects leaf growth, photosynthesis, pollination, occurrence of diseases and finally economic yield. The incidence of insect pests and diseases is high under high humidity conditions. High RH favours easy germination of fungal spores on plant leaves. Majority of pest and diseases are commonly seen during rainy season while aphids, scales, mealy bugs and mites are relatively more severe during summer. Blast disease of ragi is common in winter season. Top of page Wind Wind is normally unimportant factor in ragi production. A light wind is said to be beneficial as it stirs air and transports CO2 to the leaf canopy. Very strong winds do occur during cyclones and lead to severe damage. During pollination, strong wind may induce sterility and increase the number of abortive endosperms. Strong wind during flowering phase may not be conducive for rice crop. High wind speed during flowering may cause pollen dehydration and consequent spikelet sterility. Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Season Ragi is not a season bound crop and hence can be cultivated throughout the year, if moisture is available. Kharif crop is sown during May or June. If the rains are not received in time, the sowing time is postponed up to the end of August. However, sowing should be done early in rainfed areas to avoid moisture stress at critical stage of flowering. In areas, where irrigation facilities are inadequate, the sowing should be done soon after onset of monsoon. In higher hills of northern India, the optimum time of sowing for finger millet is the first fortnight of June. The rainfed early crop is sown in April or early May. Rabi crop is sown during September and October. The rainfed rabi crop in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh is sown in September and October. The irrigated crop of finger millet is sown in more than one season in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Irrigated crop planting during June – July and summer irrigated crop by planting Dec – Jan. Ragi sowing time and harvesting time in different states State Sowing Harvesting Early Kharif Kharif Late Kharif Rabi Summer Early Kharif Kharif Late Kharif Rabi Summer Karnataka Apr - May Jun - Jul Aug - Sep Oc t- Dec Jan - Mar Round the year TamilNadu Chithiraipattam (Apr - May) Adipattam (Jun - Jul) - Purattasipattam (Sep - Oct) Marghazipattam (Dec - Jan) Sep - Oct Nov - Dec - May - Jun May - Aug Kerala : It is usually grown during the following seasons. Main season: June - September Late season: July - October Summer: Dec - Jan to March - April Top of page Varieties Recommended varieties of ragi for different states State Varieties TamilNadu CO RA (14) *, CO 1**, CO 2**, CO 3, CO 4, CO 5, CO 6, CO 7**, CO 8**, CO 9**, Co 10**, CO 11**, CO 12**, CO 13**, K 1, K 2, K 5, K 6, K 7, TRY 1, Paiyur 1**, Paiyur (RA) 2*, GPU 28, GPU 48*, Indaf 5, Indaf 7, Indaf 9, PR-202 Karnataka Indaf 5, Indaf 9, L 5, GPU 48*, GPU-45*, MR 6*, GPU-28*, GPU-26, MR-1, MR-2, HR-911, BM9-1, Cauveri, Hamsas, Annapurna, Hagari 1, Hagari 2, Shakti Hullubele, Hasta (Indaf 7) and PR-202 (Godavari) Kerala PR-202, K-2, Co-2**, Co-7**, Co-8**, Co-9**, Co-10** * Blast resistant; ** Drought tolerant Top of page Variety specific information for different states TamilNadu Karnataka Kerala Top of page Varieties in TamilNadu S.No Variety Duration Season Year of Release Yield Special Attributes Irrigated Rainfed 1 CO 13 (CO 7 x TAH 107) 95 to 100 days (Small duration variety) Marghazipattam (Dec–Jan) Chithiraipattam (April-May) Adipattam (June - July) Puratasipattam (Sept - Oct) 1988 - Scientist at the Department of Millets, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore Grain: 3600 kg/ha (I), 2300 kg/ha (R) Straw: 10000 kg/ha (I), 7500kg/ha (R) All season crop Cultivated in Cuddalore, Villupuram, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Erode, Coimbatore districts of Tamilnadu Drought tolerant 2 CO 11 (Pure line selection from MS 2584) 90 to 95 days (Small duration variety) Marghazipattam (Dec–Jan) Chithiraipattam (April-May) Adipattam (June - July) Puratasipattam (Sept - Oct) 1978 Grain: 3250 kg/ha (R), 4750 kg/ha (I) Straw: 8750 kg/ha (I), 6250 kg/ha (R) Drought tolerant 3 CO 10 - Marua ragi (Pure line selection) 85 days (Small duration variety) Feb - March 1973 Grain: 3500 kg/ha Drought tolerant 4 CO 9 (White ragi) 100 days (Small duration variety) Marghazipattam (Dec – Jan) Chithiraipattam (April - May) ---- 1970 - Scientist at the Department of Millets, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore Grain: 4500 kg/ha Drought tolerant Suitable to all districts except Kanyakumari & Nilgiris of Tamilnadu 5 CO 7 (Pure line selection) 100 days (Small duration variety) Marghazipattam (Dec–Jan) Chithiraipattam (April-May) Adipattam (June - July) Puratasipattam (Sept - Oct) 1953 Grain: 2750 kg/ha (R) 4500 kg/ha (I) Straw: 7500 kg/ha (I), 5000 kg/ha (R) Suitable for irrigated and rainfed. Drought tolerant 6 TRY 1 (Selection from HR 574) 100 days (Small duration variety) Marghazipattam (Dec – Jan) ---- 1989 - Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute, Trichy Grain: 4011 kg /ha Straw: 6800 kg/ha Saline tolerant high yielding variety Suitable to all districts except Kanyakumari & Nilgiris of Tamilnadu 7 CO RA (14) - Malawi 1305 x CO 13 105 to 110 days (Medium duration variety) Marghazipattam (Dec – Jan) Chithiraipattam (April - May) Adipattam (June - July) Puratasipattam (Sep- Oct) 2004 - Scientist at the Department of Millets, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore Grain: 2892 kg /ha (I), 2794 kg /ha (R) Straw: 8113 kg/ha (I), 8503 kg/ha (R) Easy thresh ability, synchronized maturity and non-lodging growth habit, Neck and finger blast disease resistant variety. Cultivated in all districts except Kanyakumari & Nilgiris of Tamilnadu 8 CO 12 (Selection PR 722 of Reddapuran) 110-120 days (Medium duration variety) June –July and Dec - Jan 1985 Grain: 4750 kg/ha (I), 3250 kg/ha (R) Straw: 8750 kg/ha (I), 6250 kg/ha (R) Resisitant to blast Drought tolerant 9 Paiyur 1 (Pureline) 115 to 120 days (Medium duration variety) ---- Adipattam (June - July) Puratasipattam (Sep- Oct) 1985- Regional Research Station, Paiyur Grain: 3125 kg/ha Straw: 5250 kg/ha Cultivated in all districts except Kanyakumari & Nilgiris of Tamilnadu Drought tolerant 10 Paiyur (RA) 2 – Hybrid derivative of VL 145 / Selection 10 115 days (Medium duration variety) ---- Adipattam (June - July) Puratasipattam (Sept - Oct) 2008 - Regional Research Station, Paiyur Grain: 3150 kg/ha Resistant to leaf blast & moderately resistant to neck and finger blast Suitable to Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Salem and Namakkal districts of Tamilnadu Top of page Varieties in Karnataka S.No Cultivar Duration Season Year of Released Yield Ecology 1 GPU 28 (Krishna) - Indaf 5 x (Derived from Indaf 9 x IE 1012) Medium duration (110 to 115 days) Both Irrigated (Summer) & Rainfed condition (Kharif) 1998 - AICRP on small millets, UAS, GKVK, Bangalore 40-45 q/ha (Irrigated) 30-35 q/ha (Rainfed) High yielding, resistant to neck blast, finger blast Cultivation in entire Karnataka and Tamilnadu 2 GPU 26 (Somana) Short duration variety (90 to 100 days) Both Irrigated (summer) & Rainfed condition (Kharif) 2000- AICRP on small millets, UAS, GKVK, Bangalore Grain: 3000-3500kg/ha It is an alternative to Indaf-9 variety Suitable for late sown (up to the end of August) under rainfed conditions and during Summer under irrigated conditions. Cultivation in entire Karnataka 3 GPU 45 104 to 109 days (Medium duration variety) Rainfed (Kharif) 2001 – UAS, Bangalore Recommended for cultivation in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Jharkhand and Maharashtra state 4 GPU 48 Short duration variety (About 100 days) Irrigated crop UAS, Bangalore 37 q/ha Tolerant to blast and suitable for catch cropping (time and space) under irrigated conditions Cultivation in entire Karnataka and some places of Tamilnadu 5 L 5 (Malawi x Indaf 9) Long duration variety (115 to 120 days) Rainfed crop (Kharif) 2000 - ARS, Naganahalli, Mysore, Karnataka 3604 Kg/ha Substitute for Indaf-1 and Indaf-8 varieties Highly tolerant to finger & neck blast. Suitable for Karnataka area. 6 MR 6 Long duration variety (120 days) Irrigated and Rainfed crops UAS, Bangalore 45-50 q/ha (Irrigated) 30-35 q/ha (Rainfed) Highly tolerant to neck and finger blast 7 Indaf 5 (Cauvery x IE929) Medium duration variety (105 to 110 days) Irrigation:Karthigai & Marghazhi pattam (Oct-Dec.) Rainfed: Adipattam (June - July) 1977 - UAS BangaloreKarnataka Grain: 4000 kg/ha (I), 2500 kg /ha (R) Straw: 7500 kg/ha (I), 5200 kg/ha (R) High yielding, susceptible to Neck Blast, Finger Blast Cultivation in Tamil Nadu (Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Coimbatore, Erode) and Karnataka state 8 Indaf 7 110 days (Medium duration variety) Sep - Feb 1980 Grain: 4500 kg/ha (R), 5000kg/ha (I) 9 Indaf 9 (K1 x IE980) 90 to 105 days Jul – Aug, Jan - Feb 1988 Grain: 4500kg/ha (R), 6000 kg/ha (I) High yielding Susceptible to neck blast, finger blast 10 MR-1 (V) (120-125 days) Kharif 1998 - RRS, VC Farm, UAS, Mandya 3500-4000 kg/ha Recommended for cultivation in entire rainfed Kharif ragi growing areas of South Karnataka 11 HR 911 110-115 days Kharif & Summer 1986- PC Unit, Bangalore 3000-3500 kg/ha It can be grown in rainfed and irrigated conditions 12 Chillika 120-125 days Late Kharif 2001 - OUAT, Bhubaneshwar, Orissa Grain: 2600-2700kg/ha Moderately resistant to blast. Resistatnt to stem borer 13 PR 202 (Sarada x EC 158) 100 – 105 days (Medium duration variety) Jul - Aug 1976 (released in Andhra Pradesh) Grain: 5000kg/ha Suitable to Karnataka Top of page Varieties in Kerala S.No Variety Duration in Days Season Year of Release Yield Special Attributes 1 PR 202 (Sarada x EC 158) 100 – 105 days (Medium duration variety) Rainfed - Kharif 1976 (released in Andhra Pradesh) Irrigated - 3000-3500kg/ha Rainfed – 2000-2500kg/ha Medium compact, incurved ear head Orange brown bold grains 2 K2 135 days Rainfed –Kharif Irrigated – Rabi 1955 1362 Kg/acre Suited for rainfed and irrigated condition Drought tolerant 3 CO 2 (EC 3517 multi ragi) 110 days Rainfed –Kharif Irrigated – Rabi 1942 Grain: 929 kg/ac Straw: 5450 kg/ac Suited for rainfed and irrigated. Drought tolerant 4 CO 7 (Pure line selection) 110 days Rainfed –Kharif Irrigated – Rabi 1953 Grain: 2750 kg/ha (R) 4500 kg/ha (I) Straw: 7500 kg/ha (I), 5000 kg/ha (R) Suitable for irrigated and rainfed. Drought tolerant 5 CO 8 (Selection from natural cross of selupet taluk of Nellore dt, Andhra) 85 days (Short duration variety) June –July and Dec – Jan 1963 Grain: 2500 kg/ha Straw: 5682 kg/ha Suitable for irrigated and rainfed. Drought tolerant 6 CO 9 (White ragi) 100 days (Small duration variety) Rainfed –Kharif Irrigated – Rabi 1970 - Scientist at the Department of Millets, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore Grain: 4500 kg/ha Suited for rainfed and irrigated Drought tolerant 7 CO 10 - Marua ragi (Pure line selection) 85 days (Small duration variety) Rainfed –Kharif Irrigated – Rabi 1973 Grain: 3500 kg/ha Drought tolerant Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Cultivation System Ragi is the most important food grain in India and it is cultivated in different states depending upon the weather, nature of the crop, soil type and water availabilty There are two systems of cultivation is practiced in Ragi. Irrigated Rainfed Irrigated System Irrigated crop can be raised in December - January and April- May seasons. It is suited for cultivation all over Tamil Nadu and Karnataka Sowing should done soon after onset of monsoon The field is fertilized and irrigated adequately Methods Practiced Direct Sown Crop Transplanted Crop System of Ragi Intensification (SRI) Top of page Rainfed System Average and well distributed rainfall of 450-500 mm is optimum for rainfed ragi This system followed in the month of June and July. It also grown in winter season (rabi) by planting in September – October in Tamil Nadu and as a summer irrigated crop by planting January – February. Mostly rainfed ragi is mixed or intercropped with sorghum, pearl millet, oil seeds and pulses Fallow ploughing is advantageous for moisture conservation Line sowing is ideal and seed drills giving spacing of 22.5 – 30 cm between rows should be used. Sowing by seed-cum-fertilizer drill is advantageous for line sowing Recommended seed rate of 15-20 kg per hectare Sowing should be done early in rainfed areas, to avoid moisture stress at critical stage of flowering Maintenance of optimum plant population is an important prerequisite for getting higher yield under rainfed conditions Use seed hardening technique will not only improve germination and subsequent plant stand but also impart early seedling vigour and tolerance to drought Apply Recommended dose of N: P: K 40:20:20 kg/ha. 50% of fertilizer at the time of sowing and the remaining 50% around 35 days after sowing is recommended In line sown crop 2-3 inter-cultivations are necessary. In assured rainfall and irrigated areas spraying 2, 4-D sodium salt @ 0.75 kg.a.i./ha as post-emergent spray around 20-25 days after sowing effectively controls weeds In broadcast crop two effective hand weedings will minimize weeds as inter cultivations is not possible. The yield is affected by early and late sowings Methods Practiced Direct Sown Crop Transplanted Crop Top of page Direct Sown Crop Package of Practices Seed rate: 10 Kg/ha Spacing: 22.5*15 cm The seeds are directly sown in lines or broadcasted in the main field Direct seeding is done by broadcasting the seeds or seeds sowing in lines with the recommended spacing, which are later covered by ploughing, harrowing or trampling using animals Apply NPK/ha @ 22.5 Kg/ha each before sowing and top dress N at after on 21 days after sowing Furrows and ridges are prepared for irrigation. Irrigate the field at weekly intervals increase growth rate and yield Weeding should be done three weeks after sowing and completed before top dressing Spray insecticides and fungicides for the control of pest and diseases Matures 3 -5 months after sowing, depending on variety, season and soil properities Harvest the crop when the ears are yellowish brown Top of page Transplanted Crop Package of Practices Seed rate: 3 - 5 Kg/ha Spacing: For Irrigated 22.5x 10 cm, For Rainfed 22.5 to 30x 7.5 to 10 cm It is common where early rains are uncertain. Seedlings are raised in nursery and planted in main field Prepare the nursery field to fine tilth. Form beds and channels and sow the seeds uniformly on the beds and cover by stirring the soil Transplant the seedlings to main field when they are three weeks old Plough the main field 3-4 times and incorporate FYM or compost Irrigate the field on the day of transplantation. Irrigation at weekly intervals increases growth rate and yield Apply N, P2O5 and K2O @ 22.5 Kg/ha each before sowing or planting. Top dress N at22.5 Kg/ha 21 days after planting Weeding should be done three weeks after sowing and completed before top dressing Spray insecticides and fungicides for the control of pest and diseases Matures 3 -5 months after sowing, depending on variety, season and soil properties Harvest the crop when the ears are yellowish brown Top of page System of Ragi Intensification In Karnataka, System of Ragi Intensification is called as Gulli ragi in local language which applies the same kind of management practices as used in SRI to grow finger millet, with often tripling of yield, without dependence of chemical fertilizers. SRI Technology uses less input. It uses less seed, water, chemical fertilizers and pesticides but uses more organic manures. Rice grown with SRI Technology has large root volume, profuse and strong tillers with big panicles, more and well – filled spikelets with higher grain weight. Under SRI, ragi fields are not flooded but only kept moist by alternate wetting and drying. How to grow nursery? Principles Benefits Constraints Top of page How to grow nursery? Prepare the land thoroughly when dry. Apply FYM and puddle well. Then, make beds of 1 meter width with convenient length. Remove the soil from either side of the bed and put it on the bed. The bed automatically gets raised in height. Place wooden planks of bamboo slits all around the bed for support so that the soil will not loosen and get carried away with rain. The seedbed should be prepared as closely as possible to the main field so as to minimize transport time between removal of seedlings from the bed and transplanting in the field. Soak the seed in water for 12 hours. Put the seed in a wet gunny bag and leave it for 24 hours for incubation. Level the seed bed. Spread a thin layer of well decomposed FYM on the bed. On this layer, broadcast the seed sparsely. See that 1.25 kg seed is sown on 40 Sq. m area. Apply another layer of FYM to cover the seeds. Irrigate carefully every morning and evening. Do not apply any agro chemicals to the nursery bed. In 10 to 15 days, vigorous & healthy nursery is ready for transplanting. Top of page SRI Principles i. Use of young seedlings for transplanting Early Transplanting: A 10 to 15 days old seedling with just two leaves have to be transplanted. This ensures more tillers and more root growth. While 30 tillers per plant are fairly easy to achieve, 50 tillers per plant are quite attainable. Taking out seedlings from the nursery: Take an Iron sheet of sufficient thickness measuring 18” by 15”. Push through this sheet into the nursery bed beneath the plants about 3 inches down from the surface. Then lift the sheet gently. Now the plants along with the mud have come on to the metal sheet. Carry seedlings with the soil to the main field. With your right thumb and forefinger, take plant by plant along with soil and place the plant along with mud and roots gently at the intersection of grid lines made for the purpose to plant at wider spacing in a square pattern. Preparing the main field for transplanting: Plough the land thoroughly as it is done with the conventional method. At every two-meter interval make 25 cm wide channels. To make channels, place sticks at appropriate intervals (i.e. 2 m, 30 cm) along the edge of the field and stretch tine rope between them. Hold two ropes, at 25 cm apart. Remove the soil within the two ropes and spread it on the adjacent beds thereby a channel is made. Level the field thoroughly. Then take a “rake” that has teeth at 25cm apart which can be constructed simply from wood. It is pulled across the surface of the prepared field, marking lines on the surface at 25 cm intervals. Drawing the rake across the first set of lines perpendicularly (at a right angle) to them creates the desired square pattern on which seedlings are planted at the intersections of lines. In Karnataka, the korudu is pulled across the field several times between 15 and 45 days after transplanting, to bend over the young plants without breaking them off, causing the mildly traumatized plants to put out more tillers and more roots. In Karnataka, the yade kunte is a blade mounted on the end of a long handle pulled down the wide space (45 cm) between rows and between plants, aerating the soil at the same time that it eliminates weed competition. Top of page ii. Careful Transplanting It is important to avoid ‘shock’ or ‘trauma’ while transplanting the seedlings. Remove seedlings from nursery with seed, soil and roots intact carefully and plant it in the field without plunging too deep into the soil. The seed should be attached to the seedlings and transplanted as soon as possible after being removed from the nursery – within half an hour and preferably within 15 minutes to avoid desiccation and traumatization of the plant. Care is to be taken to ensure that when the seedlings are transplanted that their root tips are not inverted as usually happened during the hurried, rough transplanting done in the conventional method. If the root tip was turned upward – shaped like a J, rather than an L it could take a week or more for the tip to reorient itself downward and resume growth. Hence, do not thrust seedlings downward into the soil. Rather, each seedling is slipped into the soil very ‘gently’ and close to the surface, so that its root lies horizontally in the moist soil. This makes the shape of the transplanted seedling more like ‘L’ than like ‘J’ and facilitates root growing quickly downward. Only single seedling is to be planted at the intersection rather than in clumps of 2 or 3 or more. Top of page iii. Wider Spacing Ragi plants can better realize their potential for tiller and root growth and for subsequent grain filling, if spaced widely rather than densely. Seedlings are to be planted a square pattern at 25 x 25 cm wide. Leaving wide space between each plant ensures that roots have adequate room to grow and the plants will be exposed to more sunlight, air and nutrients. The result is more root growth and more tillering. The square pattern also facilitates weeding in both directions. This means that individual plants have more room to spread. Top of page iv. Weeding and Aeration As there is no standing water in rice fields under SRI method, weed growth is very high. Use simple mechanical hand weeder (rotary hoe) to churn the soil for weed control. Rotate the weeder at least 2 to 4 times. This incorporates the weeds into the soil. The first weeding should be done at 10-12 days after transplanting to eliminate weeds when these were just germinating rather than wait for them to grow. Subsequent weedings are done at 10 days interval. Working with rotary weeders helps in greater aeration which results in more root growth, reduced weed competition, more oxygen and nitrogen to roots. Weeds incorporated into the soil with each weeding can add-up to 1 ton green manure per hectare per weeding and also helps build up large and diverse microbial population in the soil. Can herbicides be used? No. Herbicides are not recommended under SRI method. Instead, weeds have to be incorporated into the soil. Top of page v. Water Management Water should not be allowed to stagnate under SRI method. Give regular irrigations to keep the soil moist. Alternate ‘wetting and drying’ should be done which give aerobic and anaerobic soil conditions for better nutrient mobilization by soil biota. This avoids root degeneration, which usually happens under continuous flooding. Unflooded conditions, combined with mechanical weeding, result in more air in the soil and greater root growth. Higher root growth provides access to more nutrients. Top of page vi. Organic Manures Compost: Instead of chemical fertilizers, FYM or compost is applied @ 10t/ha which is quite sufficient as a source of nutrients. As a result, more plant growth is achieved because of better soil health and more balanced nutrient supply. Apply diverse organic manures. Organic manures act as food for microorganisms. Pest and Disease Control: Pest and disease problems appear to be less with SRI method, perhaps healthier and vigorous plants have more capacity to resist pest and disease attacks. Top of page SRI Vs Conventional method: S.No Conventional Method SRI Method 1 3 - 5Kg seed is used per hectare 1.25 Kg seed is used per hectare 2 25 to 30 day old seedlings are transplanted Only 8-12 day old seedlings are transplanted 3 Seedlings are pulled with force, roots, washed, bundled, stacked thrown thereby causing lot of trauma and shock to the plants Seedlings are treated very gently by scooping. No pulling, no washing, no bundling and no stacking. 4 Planted at random Planted in square pattern 5 3 or more plants are planted in clumps Only one plant is planted per hill 6 Application of NPK, fertilizers as recommended Application of organic manures only basal dose of fertilizers at present. No top dressing Is it labour intensive? Some farmers are hesitant at first to use SRI methods because they require more labour and skill and appear risky. At first, SRI may take 50 to 100% more labour. Planting and weeding are initially the most labour intensive part of SRI. Since yields can be double or even trippled than with current practices, it justifies mobilization of labour for profit. But over time this amount is reduced. It requires even less labour once tools designed and techniques are mastered and confidence gained. Top of page Benefits of SRI Higher grain and straw yields Reduction in duration by 10 days. Lesser chemical inputs Less water requirement (About half that of conventional method) Less chaffy grain Grain weight increased without change in grain size Higher head ragi recovery Withstood cyclonic gales. Soil health improves through biological activity Cold tolerance Top of page Constraints of SRI Non availability of labours at the initial states of planting. So it is a barrier to adopt this technology by farmers Farmers need more experience to practices this method SRI results well in rabi season because they have more water control and there is more sunlight. But in the kharif (summer) season, the timing of the monsoon’s onset is unpredictable, and its arrival brings serious flooding, which makes it hard for farmers to maintain soil aeration. Unavailability of suitable weeders Traditional mindest of farmers Lack of awareness about the technology As SRI is labour intensive it is not suitable for large scale production Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About UsContact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Nursery Management Preparation of Nursery The seeds are raised in a well prepared nursery beds during the months of May – June and the seedlings becomes ready for transplanting after 3 to 4 weeks. Land Preparation Raised bed formation Selection of seeds Seed treatment Sowing of seeds Water management Crop protection Pulling out the seedlings for treatment Seedling treatment Land Preparation For raising seedlings to plant one ha of main field, select 12.5 cents (500m2) of nursery area near a water source, where water does not stagnate. The nursery beds should be prepared to fine tilth and well enriched with organic nutrients. Mix 37.5 kg of super phosphate with 500 kg of FYM or compost and spread the mixture evenly on the nursery area. Plough two or three times with a mould board plough or five times with a country plough. Top of page Raised bed formation Mark units of 6 plots each of size 3m x 1.5m. Provide 30 cm space between plots for irrigation. Excavate the soil from the inter space and all around to a depth of 15 cm to form channels and spread the soil removed from the channels on the bed and level. Top of page Selection of seeds Seed rate: 4 – 5 Kg/ ha The seed should belong to the proper variety, which is proposed to be grown. The seed should be clean and free from obvious mixtures of other seeds. The seed should be mature, well developed and plump in size. The seed should be free from obvious signs of age or bad storage The seed should have a high germinating capacity Top of page Seed Treatment i. Seed treatment with chemicals Mix the seeds in a polythene bag to ensure a uniform coating of seeds with Thiram 4 g/ kg or Captan 4 g/kg or Carbendazim 2 g/kg of seeds In case seeds are to be treated with seed dressing chemicals, treat the seeds first with seed dressing chemicals and then with bio-fertilizers at the time of sowing. Top of page ii. Seed treatment with bio fertilizers Seed treatment with Azospirillum may be done @ 3 packets/ha (600g/ha) and 3 packets/ha (600g/ha) of Phosphobacteria or 6 packets of Azophos (1200 g/ha). Treat the seeds at least 24 hours prior to sowing. Procedure for inoculating seeds with bio-fertilizers Bio-fertilizer culture specific to the crop is to be used @ 25 g per kg of seeds Sticker solution is necessary for effective seed inoculation. This can be prepared by dissolving 25 g jaggery or sugar in 250 ml water and boiling for 5 minutes. The solution thus prepared is cooled Smear the seeds well using the required quantity of sticker solution. Then add culture to the seeds and mix thoroughly so as to get a fine coating of culture on the seeds The culture-coated seed is to be dried well in shade to avoid clumping of seeds Use inoculated seeds for sowing Top of page iii. Seed treatment with cow urine Treat seeds with cow urine, salt water and asafetida before sowing was effective against seed borne diseases. Mix one part of cow urine with 10 parts of water Pour the Ragi seeds into this and let them wait for 15 minutes After 15 minutes remove the hollow floating seeds Pour off the water to separate the hard seeds on the bottom from the water Dry the seeds in the shade before sowing Top of page Sowing of seeds Rill sowing or broadcast 5 kg of treated seeds evenly on the beds. In SRI use 1.5 Kg of treated seeds per hectare Cover the seeds by leveling out the hand lightly over the soil. Sprinkle 500 kg of powered FYM over the beds evenly to cover the seeds which are exposed and compact the surface lightly. (Do not sow the seeds deep as germination will be adversely affected). Top of page Water Management Provide one inlet to each nursery unit. Allow water to enter through the inlet and cover all the channels around the beds. Allow the water in the channels to rise till the raised beds are wet and then cut off water. Adjust the frequency of irrigation according to the soil type. No. of Irrigations Red Soils Heavy Soils First Immediately after sowing Immediately after sowing Second 3rd day after sowing 4thday after sowing Third 7th day after sowing 9th day after sowing Fourth 12th day after sowing 16th day after sowing Fifth 17th day after sowing ----- In case of red soil irrigation is given on the 3rd day to soften the hard crust formed on the soil surface and also to facilitate seedlings to emerge out. Do not allow cracks to develop in the nursery bed by properly adjusting the quantity of irrigation water. Top of page Crop Protection i. Cut Worm Larva feed leaves especially in nursery. Larvae hide in the soil during daytime and feed on leaves at night. Young caterpillars cut the seedlings at the base. Finally it defoliates completely. This Pest is controlled by spraying Endosulfan 35EC @ 0.75 lit/ha or Carbaryl 50WP @ 2.5 Kg/ha or Chlorpyriphos 20EC @ 2lit/ha or Phasolone 35EC @ 1.25 lit/ha. Removing the weeds and plant residues in the nursery. Put the poison bait of wheat bran – 1Kg + Monocrotophos (10ml) +Jaggery-100gm + Water to moisten the bait. Top of page ii. Grasshopper It is a polyphagous insect, which feed many other plants. It feeds on foliage and tender shoots of ragi seedlings. Nymph and adult defoliate the crop and make marginal notchings in the leaves. The long term control of grasshoppers is possible through the use of cultural practices like tillage, fall clean-up, trap cropping, early seeding and early harvest. Spraying Endosulfan 35EC 400 ml/lit or Carbaryl 50WP 400g/lit of water. Top of page iii. Blast The infection appears in the nursery from the second week after germination. Spindle shaped spots appear on the leaves with yellow margin and greyish centre in the initial stages. Later the centre become whitish grey and disintegrates. Finally the young leaves dry in the nursery itself. This disease can be controlled by spraying any one of the following fungicides Carbendazim 0.1% or Edifenphos 10 ml in 10 litres of water using a high volume sprayer which cover 3 cents nursery area on 10 to 12 days after sowing. Seed treatment with carbendazim @ 1gm/Kg of seeds. Spary Pseudomonas at 2g/lit of water immediately and after noticing the symptoms. Grow resistant varieties like CO RA(14), Paiyur (RA)-2, GPU-28,GPU-45,GPU-48, L-5. Use healthy ragi seeds for sowing which will avoid the blast incidence. Top of page iv. Seedling Blight The pathogen affects both seedling and the adult plants. The first symptom appears on the seedlings as minute, oval, light brown lesions on the young leaves and become dark brown lesions. As the seedlings develop, these enlarge into elongagte lesions, about 1 cm.in length and 1 to 2mm.in width and become dark brown. Several such lesions coalesce to form large patches of infection on the leaf blade. The affected blades wither prematurely and the seedlings may be killed. This disease can be controlled by Spraying Mancozeb at 1.25Kg/ha or DithaneZ-78 (2g/lit of water) or 1% Bordeaux mixture or Copper oxychloride. Seed treatment with Captan or Thiram at 4g/kg of seeds. Uproot and destroy the diseased plant soon after detecting in the field. Top of page Pulling out the seedlings for treatment Pull out seedlings on the 17th to 20th day of sowing for planting. The optimum age of seedling for transplanting depends on variety and its duration. Transplanting generally is done manually by pressing its roots with thumbs on wet or loose soil. Age of seedlings is one of the important factors in deciding the growth of seed crop and yield. Transplanting of too young or too old seedlings will adversely affect the yield. Avoid aged seedlings for transplantation. Top of page Seedlings treatment Before transplanting, treatment of seedling with biofertilizers is beneficial for increasing the crop yield. The method of application is as follows. Take a bucket of water. Recommended dose of Azospirillum (1000g/ha) and Phosphobacteria (1000g/ha) are mixed in this water. Dip the roots of seedlings in suspension and keep than immersed for about 20 to 30 minutes. Take out the seedlings from the suspension and transplant immediately. Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Cultivation Practices Soil Land Preparation Sowing & Transplanting Cropping System Intercultural Practices Soil Ragi is cultivated on a variety of soils ranging from rich loam to poor shallow upland soils. It prefers porous and well drained loam to light red loam and sandy loam soils of good fertility but reasonable water holding capacity. It can tolerate some water logging. Black soils with sufficient drainage capacity also support to cultivate Ragi crop. In southern India, it predominates on marginal soil conditions, provided by lateritic and red sandy loams. It withstands and thrives well on slightly alkaline soils too. It seems to have ability to utilize rock phosphate than other cereals do. The soil should be rich in organic matter. Deep vertisols and rocky soils are not suitable for this crop owing to poor drainage and low fertility. It can be grown in soils with pH of 4.5-7.5. Tank silt is applied to the soil just before the rain begins and soon after the land is ploughed thrice to incorporate weeds in the soil. Heavy clay soils with poor drainage is less suitable Top of page Land Preparation The land is prepared separately for irrigated and rainfed conditions. In areas with a rainfall of 60 to 75 cm, ragi is cultivated as a rainfed crop. So the field should be deeply ploughed for moisture conservation. But in irrigated crop, plough the field immediately at the arrival of monsoon until gets fine tilth. Preparation of Main field i. Tillage Irrigated Rainfed Plough the field twice with iron mould board plough or thrice with wooden plough, immediately after the harvest of the previous crop or at the arrival of pre-monsoon rain Levelling and clod breaking is achieved by using a plank harrow or sometimes with wooden mallets Later a tined harrow smoothens the soil surface Plough the field until gets fine tilth with disc harrow Fall ploughing is advantageous for moisture conservation. In the month of April or May, one deep ploughing with mould board plough followed by ploughing with wooden plough twice is necessary. Before sowing secondary tillage with cultivar and multiple tooth hoe to prepare smooth seed bed is necessary. Top of page ii Application of FYM or Compost Irrigated Spread 12.5 t/ha of FYM or compost coir pith (Kerala – 5 t/ha of FYM or Compost) evenly on the unploughed field and then plough and incorporate in the soil. (Do not spread and leave the manure uncovered in the field as nutrients will be lost). (or) Soil treatment with biofertilizers: Azospirillum (2 kg/ha) and Phosphobacteria (2 kg/ha) of the recommended biofertilizers are mixed with in 20 to 25kg of compost and kept overnight. This mixture is incorporate in the soil at the time of sowing or planting. Top of page iii. Application of fertilizers Irrigated Rainfed For Tamil Nadu: Apply NPK 30:30:30 Kg/ha at the time of sowing For Karnataka: Apply NPK 50:50:50 Kg/ha at the time of sowing Apply 10 packets /ha (2kg) of Azospirillum inoculant after mixing with 25 kg of soil and 25 kg of farmyard manure before transplanting. Another method: Application of 2 tonnes of enriched farmyard manure per hectare with 100% P and K fertilizer gave higher yield of Ragi in Coimbatore. For Tamil Nadu: Apply NPK 20:20:20 Kg/ha at the time of sowing For Karnataka: Apply NP 30:37 Kg/ha at the time of sowing Apply 10 packets /ha (2kg) of Azospirillum inoculant after mixing with 25 kg of soil and 25 kg of farmyard manure before transplanting. Another method: Application of 2 tonnes of enriched farmyard manure per hectare with 100% P and K fertilizer gave higher yield of Ragi in Coimbatore. Top of page iv. Forming beds and channels Form beds of size 10m2 to 20m2 according to topography of the field. Top of page v. Application of micronutrient mixture Mix 12.5 kg/ha of micronutrient mixture formulated by the Agriculture Department with enough sand to make a total quality of 50 kg/ha. Apply the mixture evenly on the beds. Do not incorporate the mixture in the soil. Top of page Sowing and Transplanting A plant population of 4 to 5 lakhs per ha is optimum for getting higher yields and higher or lower population than the optimum will reduce the yield. There are various methods practiced for ragi cultivation. In rainfed ragi, ragi is grown as intercrop or mixed crop with non cereal crops. In irrigated ragi, ragi is grown as sole crop. The following methods are used for irrigated and rainfed ragi. Direct Sowing Broadcasting Line Sowing Drilling in rows Transplanting Top of page Direct Sowing Direct sowing is the practice of sowing seeds directly in the main field, eliminating the process of seedling raising and transplanting. The seeds are sown in the prepared land before or with the onset of monsoon. The following three methods used for sowing ragi seeds. i. Broadcasting It is a common method practiced in farmers fields Seed rate – 10 to 15Kg/ha The seeds are directly sown in the main field by broadcasting Sow the seed ensuring full coverage of the site. Mixing the seed with an inert material may help you broadcast the seed by hand Seeds should have moisture within 24 hours of sowing. Each handful weighs about 10-20 grams so you should cover 7-15 metres per handful Top of page ii. Line Sowing It is a better method than broadcasting. Seeds are sown in the main field in lines. The spacing is 22.5 to 30 cm between lines and 8 to 10cm within a line. The seed should not be sown less than 3-4 cm deep. Line sowing ensures better germination, reduces seed requirement and facilitates intercultural operation as compared to broadcast method of sowing. Top of page iii. Drilling in rows Ragi seeds are very small (400 seeds/ g) and the recommended seed rate of 10 to 15 kg per hectare will contain about 4 million seeds. Therefore, even when seed drill is used thinning the row leaving a spacing 7.5 to 10 cm between plants, must be followed. Sowing by seed-cum-fertilizer drill is advantageous for line sowing besides efficient utilization of applied nutrients. Drilling in rows with a seed drill drawn by a pair of bullocks by using more labours Top of page Transplanting Transplanting is the practice of raising the seedlings in nursery and transplant. a. Transplanting the seedlings Irrigate the beds during transplanting and level the bed if it is not levelled 3 to 4 weeks seedlings should be transplanted in the field Transplant 2 to 3 seedlings per hill in normal planting and 4 to 6 seedlings in delayed planting. For early kharif and Rabi season, plant 21 – 25 days old seedlings at a spacing of 25 cm x 10 cm For Late Kharif season, plant 25-28 days old seedlings at a spacing of 30 x 10 cm Plant the seedlings at a depth of 2 to 3 cm. Deeper planting delays tillering and root regeneration, increases duration and flowering at different times Transplant in lines at proper spacing to maintain the correct level of panicles per metre. This also eases subsequent operations. Random planting leads to uneven growth of tillers and reduce panicles per metre. Prepare slurry with 5 packets (1000g) per hectare of Azospirillum inoculant in 40 litres of water and dip the root portion of the seedlings in the solution for 15 to 30 minutes and transplant. Dip the leafy portion of the seedlings in 0.1% carbendazim solution before planting to arrest the transfer of blast to main field. The beds should be irrigated on the third day after transplantation Replace the dead hills with new seedlings from the same nursery within one week b. Management of aged seedlings When planting ragi seedlings beyond 21 days, increase the number of seedlings to 3/hill and increase N level by 25% to minimize yield loss. Maintenance of optimum plant population is an important prerequisite for getting higher yield under rainfed conditions. Poor germination, often, is the result of inadequate moisture after sowing in low rainfall areas. Under these conditions, the adoption of a simple technique like seed hardening will not only improve germination and subsequent plant stand but also impact early seedling vigour and tolerance to drought. The procedure of seed hardening technique is as follows: Step 1: Soak seeds in water for 6 hours. Use one litre of water for every kg seed for soaking. Step 2: Drain the water and keep the seeds in wet cloth bag tightly tied for two days. Step 3: At this stage, the seeds will show initial signs of germination. Step 4: Remove seeds from the wet cloth bag and dry them in shade on a dry cloth for 2 days. Step 5: Use the above hardened seeds for sowing. Top of page Cropping System The cropping system is an important component of any farming system. It is the proportion of area under various crops at a point of time. It is designed to mimic nature and bring diversity into the farming system. Commonly practiced cropping systems are: Crop rotation Intercropping Mixed cropping Strip cropping Top of page Crop Rotation Crops are grown in a planned sequence from season to season within a year or from year to year. Under Irrigated condition, it is grown in rotation with crops like chillies, vegetables, turmeric, tobacco, gram, mustard, barley, linseed etc. Crop rotation will minimize inorganic fertilizer application and also sustain higher yields. Ragi - Maize (2 year crop rotation) gave higher yield per unit area as compared to Ragi - Ragi crop rotation. Some of the common crop rotations adopted in north and south India are given below. North India South India Ragi - Mustard Ragi - Tobacco Ragi - Gram Ragi - Groundnut Ragi - Barley Ragi - Potato - Maize Ragi - Linseed Ragi - Potato - Ragi Ragi - tobacco Ragi - Sugarcane In Southern Karnataka, rotation of ragi is followed with crops like castor, horse gram, pigeon pea, green gram, black gram and cow pea. Year Season Crop Rotation Advantage I Kharif Castor & Horse Gram Minimum Cost Of Cultivation Enrichment Of Soil Fertility Suitable For Drought Conditions II Kharif and Rabi Pigeon Pea Multiple harvest no additional cultivation cost effective utilization of land. II Kharif Green gram, Black gram, Cowpea Nitrogen Fixation in Soil Fodder Availability For Cattle-Double Cropping System In Dry Land Conditions. Top of page Intercropping Intercropping is the agricultural practice of cultivating two or more crops in the same space at the same time.Intercropping also uses the practice of sowing a fast growing crop with a slow growing crop Ragi is grown under rainfed conditions mixed or intercropped with sorghum, pearl millet and various oilseeds and pulses. The most common subsidiary crops grown ragi are field bean (Lablab purpureus), pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan), cowpea (Vigna sinensis), and Niger (Guizotia abysinnica). With groundnuts, ragi is the subsidiary crop. In hills it is grown mixed with soybean. Some of the common rotations are given below: Ragi + Pigeon pea combination in 8:2 or 6:2 proportion brings higher returns. Ragi + field bean in 8:1 proportion resulted in enhancing the productivity. Ragi + Fodder sorghum in 8:1 proportion resulted in enhancing the productivity in Karnataka. Ragi + black gram or green gram in 8:2 proportions is the other profitable crop combinations. Maize and millet intercropping is the best planting arrangement to produce the highest yield. The intercropping environment also minimized the occurrence of disease and lodging in millet. The combined yields of the different intercropping combinations were 5-25% higher than that of a mono crop. Intercropping of finger millet (transplanted) + pigeon pea in the row ratio of 4:1 is better in terms of finger millet equivalent yield (66 q/ha), net returns (Rs. 20 thousand/ha) under rainfed condition. Sometimes the ragi intercropped with mustard, because mustard flowers bloom during the early stages of the ragi crop and attracts lady bird beetles, a predator of aphids, attacking the ragi crop. In case of rain failure, mustard acts as an insurance crop. Top of page Mixed cropping Mixed cropping is growing of two or more crops simultaneously on the same piece of land. This type of cropping leads to an improvement in the fertility of the soil and hence, increase in crop yield because when the two crops are properly chosen the products and refuse from one crop plant help in the growth of the other crop plant and vice-versa. It is an insurance against crop failure due to abnormal weather conditions. It is done to reduce the competition between component crops for light, nutrients and water. If one crop fails due to shortage of moisture or insufficient availability of nutrients, the other crop can cover the risk of complete failure. Mixed cropping is practiced in traditional subsistence farming to meet the domestic needs of the farmer's family. Thus, the number of crops grown mixed varies depending on the family needs. Finger millet may be mixed with pearl millet, maize, sorghum, groundnut, tapioca, pulses and vegetables. Top of page Strip Cropping Strip crops are crops that are normally taken up by farmers or introduced as intercrops, in systematic bands of multiple rows, which alternate with the rows of the main crop, usually across the slope. This also acts as a barrier to runoff water. Some of the strip cropping are given below: Groundnut + Finger millet 9:6 proportion In some cases, ragi is intercropped with sugarcane as 4:2 proportion in Mysore area. Strip cropping of Ragi and field bean/pigeon pea in 3:1 proportion resulted in enhancing the productivity per unit area. Top of page Intercultural Practices Intercultural operations help in keeping the soil loose and friable and also permit the retention of moisture as well as adding organic fertilizer to the soil. Weeding is a practice of removing unwanted plant in the field by using hand or implement or spraying weedicides. Weeding and hoeing helps to avoid the competition for space, nutrients, water and keep the crop healthy. However, weeding is considered as one of the important intercultural operations in this crop. i. Intercultural practices in karnataka Interculturing and weeding are simpler in transplanted ragi cultivation. The prevailing practice is as follows: 1. Interculturing with a hand-hoe (gudali in Karnataka) 30 days after transplanting 2. First weeding with a hand weeding implement (kalekudulu in Karnataka) 10 days after interculturing 3. Second hand weeding with the same implements five days after the first Interculturing and weeding using animal power is rarely seen in the areas of ragi cultivation. There are four operations are practiced for ragi sown as sole crop. They are Thinning-cum-interculturing, Weeding with an implement pulled by bullocks, Hand weeding and Intertillage. a. Thinning-cum-interculturing a. First thinning-cum-interculturing using a tine-harrow(Kunte in Karnataka) pulled by a pair of bullocks, 15 days after sowing. At this time, the ragi has germinated and begun in the initial growth stage. As ragi is densely sown, thinning is necessary. This is generally done with a pair of harrows with four tines each, pulled by bullocks’ perpendicular to the sowing rows to make thinning effective. b. Second thinning-cum-interculturing 4 to 5 days after the first. Same methods and implements as in first thinning-cum-interculturing. This second stage uses a harrow with four tines. The young ragi plants eliminated by thinning at this time are used for complementary planting in the ungerminated portions of the rows. b. Weeding with implement a. First weeding using bullocks, 10 days after second thinning. A special implement called dharle in Karnataka, which has four times and two blades, is used. The blades are attached to the ends of the first and second, third and fourth tines, and are used to eliminate inter-row weeds. The dharle does not interculture the soil; it is used only for weeding. b. Inter row weeds are killed with hand weeding implement, kalekudulu after 10 to 12 days of first hand weeding. If weeds are abundant, they advance the date by a week. This work is carried out mainly by female agricultural labourers. c.Hand Weeding a. First hand weeding, with a dharle drawn by bullocks, takes place 4 to 5 days after weeding with implement. b. Second hand weeding, a week after the above operation. The method and implement used are the same as in weeding with implement. d.Intertillage Intertillage with a kunte drawn by a pair of bullocks, 10 to12 days after second hand weeding (f). A kunte with two tines is used. The farmers increase the distance between the tines so they work between the rows of ragi. The kunte is drawn parallel to the rows of ragi to stir up the soil in the inter row spaces. This operation is done about two months after sowing or in first half of September. At this time, they have the Southwestern monsoon rains in normal years. Intertillage is done just after these rains. Thereby storing water in the sub soil as soil moisture and eliminating inter-row weeds. Top of page ii.Intercultural practices in TamilNadu Inter-cultural operations are mainly intended to control weeds and to provide aeration to the soil. Finger millet may be given hand hoeing to remove weeds, break clods and aerate the rhizosphere. It is essential to control weeds in the initial stage of plant growth and development. The intercultivation and weeding should be done with hand hoe after 25 days of sowing. Two to three hoeing would be sufficient. The intercultural operations are practiced differently for irrigated and rainfed ragi crop. Top of page a.Irrigated ragi crop a.Thinning As ragi is densely sown, thinning is necessary 15 days after sowing. Normally hand thinning is practiced. The young ragi plants eliminated by thinning at this time are used for complementary planting in the ungerminated portions of the rows. b. Weed Management Hand weed twice on the 10th and 20th day after transplanting. The intercultivation and weeding should be done with hand hoe after 25 days of sowing. Two to three hoeing would be sufficient. Hoe and hand weed on the 15th day of planting in light soils and 17th day planting in heavy soils and subsequently on 30th and 32nd days, respectively. Allow the weeds to dry for 2 or 3 days after hand weeding before giving irrigation. Apply Butachlor 2.5 l/ha or Fluchloralin 2 l/ha or Pendimethalin 2.5 l/ha, using Backpack napsack/Rocker sprayer fitted with flat fan type of nozzle with 900 litre of water/ha. Apply the herbicides when there is sufficient moisture in the soil or irrigate immediately after application of herbicide. If pre-emergence herbicide is not applied, hand weeds twice on 10th and 20th day after transplanting. Top of page b.Rainfed ragi crop In line sown crop 2-3 inter-cultivations are necessary. In assured rainfall and irrigated areas spraying 2,4-D sodium salt @ 1.25kg./ha or Atrazine 2.5kg/ha as post-emergent spray around 20 to 25 days after sowing effectively controls weeds. Isoproturon @ 0.5 a.i. /ha as pre-emergence spray is also effective in control of weeds. In broadcast crop two effective hand weedings will minimize weeds as inter cultivations is not possible. Apply post emergence herbicide- 2,4-DEE or 2,4-D Na salt at 0.5 kg/ha on 10th day after sowing depending on the moisture availability. Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Nutrient Management Introduction The nutrient requirements for finger millet crop is relatively low since it is often found grown in dry lands under subsistence farming conditions, where only low yield is possible. However, under appropriate soil fertility conditions an irrigated crop needs relatively higher quantities of mineral nutrients, to achieve potentially higher yield goals set by farmers. Nutrient requirement of finger millet crop depends on total productivity, including both grains and straw. Finger millet grown under subsistence conditions, without any extraneous source of nutrients, either through farm yard manure or fertilizers, naturally yields will be 0.6 to 0.8 ton/ha. Application of nitrogen improves its recovery and rain productivity. About 60Kg N/ha is applied to medium duration varieties grown under rainfed conditions. Whereas, 100 kg N/ha is applied for long duration varieties. Irrigated crop usually requires higher amount of nitrogen at 100 Kg/ha. In addition, Azospirillum is applied to soil at 2Kg/ha. In addition to above nitrogen sources, integrated nutrient management procedures envisage application of 7-12 ton FYM/ha. Importance of Nutrients Crop growth depends on, among other things, nutrients. Both macro- and micronutrients are essential for plant growth. Macronutrients are those elements needed in large amounts by the crop, and large quantities have to be applied if the soil is deficient in one or more of them. Nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and potassium (K) are the ‘primary macronutrients’ and these form the basis of NPK fertilizer compounds. The ‘secondary macronutrients’ are calcium (Ca), magnesium (Mg) and sulfur (S). Micronutrients are those elements required in very small quantities. Despite being needed in small quantities, micronutrients are essential for the overall performance and health of the Ragi crop. They include iron (Fe), manganese (Mn), zinc (Zn), copper (Cu), molybdenum (Mo), and boron (B). It is important to note that the extent and severity of nutrient hunger symptoms can be addressed by a variety of fertilizers, which may be applied basally or as foliar applications (in the case of micronutrients) Top of page Macro Nutrients Nitrogen Phosphorus Potassium Calcium Magnesium Sulphur Top of page Nitrogen Effects of Nutrients Nitrogen is an important element for Ragi, which influence the productivity of the crop. Nitrogen imparts the green colour to the leaves that is responsible for photosynthesis. It helps for rapid plant growth with more tillers in vegetative stage and produce more and heavier grain on panicle initiation stage. Higher application of nitrogen cause the plants to lodging Nitrogen is mostly needed during vegetative growth and panicle initiation stage. Nitrogen often comes from fertilizer application and from the air (legumes get their N from the atmosphere, water or rainfall contributes very little nitrogen) Sources of nitrogen are Farmyard manure, Green manures, Castor cake, Neem cake, Urea, Diammonium phosphate, Ammonium nitrate , Ammonium sulphate Deficiency symptoms Older leaves become light green and chlorotic at the tip. Leaves die under severe stress. Except for young leaves, which are greener, deficient leaves are narrow, short, erect, and lemon yellowish. The entire field may appear yellowish and stunted growth of plants Nitrogen deficiency often occurs at critical growth stages such as tillering and panicle initiation, when the demand for N is large. Correction measures Use optimum dose of nitrogen fertilizer Apply available organic materials like farm yard maure (2 tonnes per hectare), crop residues, compost on soils The recommended dose of fertilizer vary from state to state. For rainfed crop, application of Nitrogen @ 50 Kg in Karnataka and 40 Kg in Tamil Nadu. For Irrigated ragi crop, 100Kg Nitrogen applied in Karnataka and 90 Kg nitrogen applied in Tamil Nadu Basal application of 50% Nitrogen per hectare in the main field. Half of the remaining dose( 50%) of nitrogen should be top dressed in two equal split doses after 30 and 50 days of sowing depending upon the moisture availability. In areas of uncertain rainfall, 50% at sowing and the remaining 50% around 35 days after sowing is recommended Urea 2% foliar spray at 40 and 50 days after sowing increased the grain yield of Ragi Top of page Phosphorus Effects of Nutrients Phosphorus is essential for the general health and vigor of ragi It plays an important role in the process of photosynthesis, nutrient transfer and energy transfer Helps for the proper plant maturation and withstanding stress. Effects rapid plant growth. Encourages blooming and root growth. It increases disease resistance and strengthen the stem of the ragi crop Mixing a phosphorus rich fertilizer with soil when planting will help the plant establish a stable root system and have a strong first growing season. Increases the yield of grain and straw. Phosphorus often comes from Farmyard manure, Castor cake, Neem cake,Super phosphate (single),Super phosphate (Double),Super phosphate (Triple), Basic slag, Mussori, Diammonium phosphate (SPIC), Deficiency symptoms It occurs throughout the growth cycle of the crop. It affects the major functions in energy storage and transfer and membrane integrity. In the initial stages, red or purple discoloration appear on the leaves. In severe cases, the plants shows stunting, reduced tillering, poor root development and early flowering. Correction Measures Early tillage enhances soil oxidation and crop residue decomposition during the fallow period and increases P availability during vegetative growth of the succeeding rice crop. Establish a healthy plant population by using high-quality seed of a high-yielding variety with multiple pest resistance planted at the correct density with proper water and pest management. Incorporate ragi straw, it will contribute to maintain positive P balance in the long term. Growing green manure crop and plough in situ in the filed Application of Farm yard manure @ 12.5 ton/ha repeatedly for several years may meet out the phosphorus requirement of the crop Apply optimum dose of phosphatic fertilizers ( 30 to 40 Kg/ha) at the time of sowing Top of page Potassium Effects of Nutrients Potassium helps the plant to grow faster Helps to increase the drought resistance Helps to reduce the pest and disease occurence Helps in the building of protein, photosynthesis and grain quality Influences tillering or branching of plant and size and weight of grain Potassium is supplied to plants by soil minerals, organic materials like Farmyard manure, Castor cake, Neem cake and fertilizers like Muriate of potash (KCl), Potassium sulphate Deficiency Symptoms Potassium deficiency symptoms often appear on drought stressed conditions. Dry weather and its effects on soil properties have contributed to poor potassium uptake by plants. Deficiency symptoms first appear as pale to lemon-yellow margins on older leaves. Browning followed by necrosis of leaf margins denotes an increase in severity of the deficiency Correction Measures Alter density or spatial arrangement of crops Eliminate the weeds Cultivate earlier in the season to avoid damaging plants Increase soil depth by sub soiling Potassium fertilizer 25 Kg/ha in Karnataka and 20Kg/ha in Tamil Nadu for rainfed crop, 50Kg/ha in Karnataka and 45 Kg/ha in Tamil Nadu for irrigated crop should be broadcasted and incorporated before planting or sowing Foliar spray of Poatssium chloride 1% Top of page Calcium Effects of Nutrients Calcium is essential for good growth and cell wall structure of the plant plays a role in regulating various cell and plant functions as a secondary messenger. Sources of calcium are dolomitic lime, gypsum, and superphosphate. Deficiency Symptoms Necrosis along the lateral margins of leaves Old leaves turn brown and die Stunting and death of growing points Corrective Measures Apply farmyard manure or straw (incorporated or burned) to balance Calcium removal from soils Apply CaCl2 or Ca containing foliar sprays for rapid treatment of severe Ca deficiency. Apply gypsum in Ca-deficient high pH soils, e.g., on sodic & high K soils. Top of page Magnesium Effects of Nutrients Magnesium is part of the chlorophyll in plants and essential for photosynthesis. It also helps activate many plant enzymes needed for growth. Soil minerals, organic material, fertilizers, and dolomitic limestone are sources of magnesium for plants. Deficiency symptoms The Mg-deficient leaves show advanced interveinal chlorosis, with necrosis developing in the highly chlorotic tissue. In its advanced form, magnesium deficiency may superficially resemble potassium deficiency. Corrective Measures Application of soluble Magnesium source such as Magnesium chloride. Foliar application of liquid fertilizers containing Mg (e.g., Mgcl22%) Top of page Sulphur Effects of Nutrients Promotes activity and development of enzymes and vitamins. Helps in chlorophyll formation. Improves root growth and grain production. Helps with vigorous plant growth and resistance to cold. Sulfur may be supplied to the soil from rainwater. It is also added in some fertilizers as an impurity, especially the lower grade fertilizers. The use of gypsum also increases soil sulfur levels. Deficiency symptoms Yellowing or pale green whole plant Young leaves chlorotic or light green colored with the tips becoming necrotic Lower leaves not showing necrosis Correction Measures Incorporate straw instead of completely removing or burning it. About 40-60% of the S contained in straw is lost during burning. Carry out dry tillage after harvesting, to increase the rate of sulfide oxidation during the follow period. Applying 15-20 kg S ha-1 gives a residual effect for two subsequent ragi crops Top of page Micro Nutrients Boron Iron Mangnese Zinc Top of page Boron Effects of Nutrients Helps in the use of nutrients and regulates other nutrients. Aids production of sugar and carbohydrates. Essential for grain development. Sources of boron are organic matter and borax Deficiency Symptoms Boron (B) deficiency is an uncommon disorder affecting plants growing in deficient soils and is often associated with areas of high rainfall and leached soils. Boron may be present but locked up in soils with a high pH, and the deficiency may be worse in wet seasons. The leaves shows as zig zag appearance and plant height is reduced. Plants unable to produce panicles if affected by boron deficiency at the panicle formation stage. Finally the yield will be reduced due to poor grain setting. Correction Measure Avoid excessive leaching Apply 2-3 Kg Boran per hectare for clayey soils Apply Boran in soluble forms (borax) for rapid treatment for Boran deficiency (0.5 to 3 Kg/ha), broadcast and incorporated before planting or as 0.1% foliar spray during vegetative growth Top of page Iron Effects of Nutrients Essential for formation of chlorophyll. Sources of iron are the soil, iron sulfate, iron chelate. Deficiency Symptoms Interveinal yellowing and chlorosis of new leaves. Entire plants becomes chlorotic. Correction Measures Application of Ferrous Sulphate (30 kg Fe ha-1)in the field Foliar applications of Ferrous Sulphate solution (2-3%) Top of page Mangnese Effects of Nutrients Functions with enzyme systems involved in breakdown of carbohydrates, and nitrogen metabolism. Soil is a source of manganese. Deficiency symptoms These leaves show a light interveinal chlorosis developed under a limited supply of Mn. The early stages of the chlorosis induced by manganese deficiency are somewhat similar to iron deficiency. They begin with a light chlorosis of the young leaves and netted veins of the mature leaves especially when they are viewed through transmitted light. Correction Measures Application of Magnese sulphate at the rate of 15-20 Kg/ha Foliar application of Magnese Sulphate Top of page Zinc Effects of Nutrients This nutrient is an important component of various enzymes that are responsible for driving many metabolic reactions of enzymes Deficiency of zinc occurs in alkaline soils, particularly in calcareous soils. Deficeincy Symptoms Stunted growth of plants. Younger leaves become chlorotic Correction measures Application of Zinc sulphate at the rate of 20-25 Kg/ha before sowing or transplanting Dip the roots of ragi seedlings in 0.5% Zinc sulphate solution overnight before planting Foliar spray of Zinc sulphate at tillering stage. Top of page Manuring Organic Fertilizers Inorganic Fertilizers Top of page Organic Fertilizers Organic Fertilizers or manures are natural products used by farmers to provide food (plant nutrients) for the crop plants. Organic manures increase the organic matter in the soil. Organic matter releases the plant food in available form for the use of crops. These manures also enable a soil to hold more water and also help to improve the drainage in clay soils. They provide organic acids that help to dissolve soil nutrients and make them available for the plants. There are a number of organic manures like farmyard manure, Bio fertilizers, green manures, Compost, vermicompost and Coir pith Top of page Types of Fertilizers a. Farmyard manure Farm yard Manure is prepared basically using cow dung, cow urine, waste straw and other dairy wastes. FYM is rich in nutrients. A larger portion of nitrogen is made available as and when the FYM decomposes. balanced nutrition is made available to the plants. Availability of Potassium and Phosphorus from FYM is similar to that from inorganic sources. Application of FYM improves soil fertility. Top of page b. Bio fertilizers Biofertilizers are ready to use live formulates of such beneficial microorganisms which on application to seed, root or soil mobilize the availability of nutrients by their biological activity in particular, and help build up the micro-flora and improves soil health. It increases the crop yield by 20-30%. Replace chemical nitrogen and phosphorus by 25%. Stimulate plant growth. Activate the soil biologically. Restore natural soil fertility. Provide protection against drought and some soil borne diseases. Top of page c. Green manuring Green manuring is the practice of growing a short duration, succulent and leafy legume crop and ploughing the plants in the same field before they form seeds. Green leaf manuring refers to adding the loppings from legume plants or trees to a field and then incorporating them into the soil by ploughing. Green manuring improves the nitrogen use efficiency or nitrogen fertilizer as well as conservation and utilization of soil moisture. Top of page d. Compost Compost is well decomposed organic wastes like plant residues, animal dung, and urine earth from cattle sheds, waste fodder etc. Compost is dark in colour, sweet smelling and nutrient rich material. It increases organic matter in soils It increases water holding capacity of soils Top of page e. Vermicomposting Vermicomposting is a type of compost making in which earthworms are used to convert organic wastes into valuable material to supply nutrients for crops. This compost is an odorless, clean, organic material containing adequate quantities of N, P, K and several micronutrients essential for plant growth. Vermicompost is a preferred nutrient source for organic farming. It is eco-friendly, non-toxic, consumes low energy input for composting and is a recycled biological product. Top of page f. Coir pith Coir pith is also known as Coco peat or Coir dust. This by-product of the coir industry can be converted into organic manure. It contains all macro and micro nutrients like N,P, K,Ca,Cu,Mg It increases water holding capacity It improves aeration Enhances deep root system Eco-friendly Top of page Organic fertilizers - state wise Tamil Nadu Kerala Karnataka Top of page Tamil nadu Spread 12.5 t/ha of FYM or compost or composted coir pith evenly on the unploughed field and then plough and incorporate in the soil. NOTE: Do not spread and leave the manure uncovered in the field as nutrients will be lost. Root dipping with Azospirillum: Prepare slurry with 5 packets (1000 g/ha) of Azospirillum and 5 packets (1000g/ha) of Phosphobacteria or 10 packets of Azophos (2000 g/ha) in 40 litres of water and dip the root portion of the seedlings in the solution for 15-30 minutes and transplant. For irrigated ragi, apply 10 packets/ha (2000 g) of azospirillum and 10 packets (2000 g/ha) of Phosphorous solubilizing bacteria or 20 packets of Azophos (4000 g/ha) after mixing with 25 kg of soil and 25 kg FYM before transplanting. For rainfed ragi, treating seeds with Azospirillum brasilense (N fixing bacterium) and Aspergillus awamori (P solubilizing fungus) @ 25 g/kg seed is beneficial. In case seeds are to be treated with seed dressing chemicals, treat the seeds first with seed dressing chemicals and then with bio-fertilizers at the time of sowing. Another method: Application of 2 tonnes of enriched farmyard manure per hectare with 100% P and K fertilizer gave higher yield of Ragi in Coimbatore. Grow green manure crops like sunnhemp, dhaincha, pillipesara,clusterbeans and Sesbania rostrata before sowing the ragi crop plough at the time of ploughing or apply green leaf manure crops like Gliycridia before sowing and plough the field. Crop rotation or Intercrop with pulses will serve as a source of green manure. Top of page Kerala Application of Farm yard manure at the rate of 5ton/ha in the nursery. Plough the field 3-4 times and incorporate FYM or compost or coir pith at 5 t/ha. in main field. For irrigated ragi, apply 10 packets/ha (2000 g) of azospirillum and 10 packets (2000 g/ha) of Phosphorous solubilizing bacteria or 20 packets of Azophos (4000 g/ha) after mixing with 25 kg of soil and 25 kg FYM before transplanting. For rainfed ragi, treating seeds with Azospirillum brasilense (N fixing bacterium) and Aspergillus awamori (P solubilizing fungus) @ 25 g/kg seed is beneficial. Top of page Karnataka Application of Farm yard manure at the rate of 7-12 ton/ha in the unploughed field and plough and incorporate in the soil. For irrigated ragi, apply 10 packets/ha (2000 g) of azospirillum and 10 packets (2000 g/ha) of Phosphorous solubilizing bacteria or 20 packets of Azophos (4000 g/ha) after mixing with 25 kg of soil and 25 kg FYM before transplanting. For rainfed ragi, treating seeds with Azospirillum brasilense (N fixing bacterium) and Aspergillus awamori (P solubilizing fungus) @ 25 g/kg seed is beneficial. In case seeds are to be treated with seed dressing chemicals, treat the seeds first with seed dressing chemicals and then with bio-fertilizers at the time of sowing. Root dipping with Azospirillum: Prepare slurry with 5 packets (1000 g/ha) of Azospirillum and 5 packets (1000g/ha) of Phosphobacteria or 10 packets of Azophos (2000 g/ha) in 40 litres of water and dip the root portion of the seedlings in the solution for 15-30 minutes and transplant. Green manuring has also shown good results where the conditions are favorable for this practice, Sunhemp (Crotalaria juncea) is sown at the rate of 18 Kg of seed per acre as soon as the monsoon breaks. After about a month the sunhemp crop has grown to a height of 30 metre and is ploughed in. Transplanting of the ragi crop from a nursery can be carried out a week later. This practice has increased the yield by as much as 350 kg/ha of dry grain. Top of page Inorganic Fertilizers - state wise Tamil Nadu Kerala Karnataka Tamil Nadu Apply fertilizers on soil test recommendation. Where soil test has not been done, the following fertilizer schedule should be adopted. For transplanted crop N is to be applied in two equal splits 50% as basal and the rest at first weeding and hoeing 20 days after transplanting. For direct sown crop N is to be applied in three splits i.e., 25% basal, 50% at 20 days after sowing and 25% at 35-40 days after sowing. Sl. No. Situation Variety Method of sowing N-P2O5-K2O (kg/ha) 1. Rainfed Early (<100 days) Direct sown 40-30-20 Transplanted 50-40-25 Medium (>100 days) Direct sown 50-40-25 Transplanted 50-40-25 2. Irrigated Early/ medium Transplanted 60-40-30 Fertilizer Recommendation – Irrigated Ragi Crop No. of doses Blanket Recommendation (kg/ha) Straight Fertilizer (kg/ha) N P K Urea Super phosphate Potash 1st dose – at the time of sowing 30 30 30 65 188 50 2nd dose – two equal spilt doses after 30 and 50 days of sowing 30 -- -- 65 -- -- Total 60 30 30 130 188 50 No of Doses DAP & Others (kg/ha) 17:17:17: Complex (kg/ha) 20:20:00 Complex (kg/ha) DAP Urea MOP 17:17:17 Complex Urea Super phosphate 20:20:00 complex Urea MOP 1st dose – at the time of sowing 65 40 50 175 -- -- 150 -- 50 2nd dose – two equal spilt doses after 30 and 50 days of sowing -- 65 -- -- 65 -- -- 65 -- Total 65 105 50 175 65 -- 150 65 50 Note: If Biofertilizers is inoculant before transplanting, the N content can be reduced by 25% Application of Micronutrient Mixture Mix 12.5 kg/ha of micronutrient mixture formulated by the Agriculture Department with enough sand to make a total quality of 50 kg/ha. Apply the mixture evenly on the beds. Do not incorporate the mixture in the soil. Top of page Karnataka Application of ‘N’ @ 60 kg/ha was found to be optimum for enhancing productivity of both long and medium duration varieties of Ragi under rainfed conditions. Application of ‘N’ @ 100-120 kg/ha long duration varieties and 100 kg/ha of ‘N’ for medium duration varieties of Ragi was found optimum for irrigated conditions at Mandya (Karnataka). Application of 100 per cent recommended doze of fertilizers (N, P & K) along with dipping of seedlings in Azospirillum slurry is effective in enhancing Ragi productivity under irrigated conditions for optimizing fertilizer dose. Fertilizer Recommendation – Irrigated Ragi Crop No. of doses Blanket Recommendation (kg/ha) Straight Fertilizer (kg/ha) N P K Urea Super phosphate Potash 1st dose – at the time of sowing 50 50 50 108 312 83 2nd dose – two equal spilt doses after 30 and 50 days of sowing 50 -- -- 108 -- -- Total 100 50 50 216 312 83 No of Doses DAP & Others (kg/ha) 17:17:17: Complex (kg/ha) 20:20:00 Complex (kg/ha) DAP Urea MOP 17:17:17 Complex Urea Super phosphate 20:20:00 complex Urea MOP 1st dose – at the time of sowing 108 67 -- 294 -- -- 250 -- 83 2nd dose – two equal spilt doses after 30 and 50 days of sowing -- 108 -- -- 108 -- -- 108 -- Total 108 175 -- 294 108 -- 250 108 83 Note: If Biofertilizers is inoculant before transplanting, the N content can be reduced by 25% Application of Micronutrient Mixture Mix 12.5 kg/ha of micronutrient mixture with enough sand to make a total quality of 50 kg/ha. Apply the mixture evenly on the beds. Do not incorporate the mixture in the soil. Top of page Kerala It is better to apply fertilizer as per soil test recommendation. If the soil test is not done the fertilizer may be applied @ 40 kg N, 30 kg P2O5 and 25 kg K2O/ha for short duration varieties (less than 100 days) and 60 kg N, 30 kg P2O5 and 30 kg K2O/ha for medium and long duration varieties of ragi. Nitrogen may be applied in two splits, 50% as basal and the remaining 50% as top dressing just before the first hoeing and weeding so as to incorporate the fertilizer into the soil. Fertilizer Recommendation – Irrigated Ragi Crop No. of doses Blanket Recommendation (kg/ha) Straight Fertilizer (kg/ha) N P K Urea Super phosphate Potash 1st dose – at the time of sowing 30 30 30 65 188 50 2nd dose – two equal spilt doses after 30 and 50 days of sowing 30 -- -- 65 -- -- Total 60 30 30 130 188 50 No of Doses DAP & Others (kg/ha) 17:17:17: Complex (kg/ha) 20:20:00 Complex (kg/ha) DAP Urea MOP 17:17:17 Complex Urea Super phosphate 20:20:00 complex Urea MOP 1st dose – at the time of sowing 65 40 50 175 -- -- 150 -- 50 2nd dose – two equal spilt doses after 30 and 50 days of sowing -- 65 -- -- 65 -- -- 65 -- Total 65 105 50 175 65 -- 150 65 50 Application of Micronutrient Mixture Mix 12.5 kg/ha of micronutrient mixture with enough sand to make a total quality of 50 kg/ha. Apply the mixture evenly on the beds. Do not incorporate the mixture in the soil. Top of page Method of Application of fertilizers Fertlizers may be applied by Broadcasting Seed treatment Seedling treatment Soil application Foliar application Top of page a.Broadcasting That means spreading fertilizers uniformly all over the field.Suitable for crops with dense stand, the plant roots permeate the whole volume of the soil, large doses of fertilizers are applied. Broadcasting of fertilizers is of two types. Basal application Top dressing Top of page i) Basal application The main objectives of broadcasting the fertilizers at sowing time are to uniformly distribute the fertilizer over the entire field and to mix it with soil. Apply half the dose of N and full dose of P2O5 and K2O and basally before planting. Broadcast the fertilizer mixture over the field before the last ploughing and incorporate into the soil by working a country plough. Mix 12.5 kg of micronutrient mixture formulated by the Department of Agriculture, Tamil Nadu with enough sand to make a total quantity of 50 kg/ha and broadcast evenly on the beds. Do not apply ammonium fertilizer to soils having high PH, as it encourages volatilization losses of ammonia from the soil. Instead, Urea will serve as a better source of nitrogen. Sometimes neem coated urea is applied in the soil to avoid volatilization losses. Top of page ii) Topdressing It is the broadcasting of fertilizers particularly nitrogenous fertilizers with the objective of supplying nitrogen in readily available form to growing plants. The remaining 50% of nitrogen is applied in two equal splits at 25-30 and 40-45 days after sowing Top of page b.Seed treatment Seed treatment refers to the application of fungicide, insecticide, or a combination of both, to seeds so as to disinfect and disinfect them from seed-borne or soil-borne pathogenic organisms and storage insects. It prevents the spread of diseases like blast and seedling blight and improves germination. Seeds are mixed thoroughly with Azospirillum (600g/ha) and Phosphobacteria (600g/ha) along with rice gruel (300 to 400ml) and dried in shade. In case seeds are to be treated with seed dressing chemicals, treat the seeds first with seed dressing chemicals and then with bio-fertilizers at the time of sowing. Seed treatment with Tricyclazole (Beam) @ 8 kg/ha of seed reduced the incidence of ragi blast. Slurry treats the graded seed with Carbendazim at 2 g/kg of seed or Captan 4 g/kg or Thiram 75% WDP at 4 g in 5 ml of water per kg of seed. Ragi seed treatment with 1 part of cow urine and 10 part of water Procedures for inoculating seeds with biofertilizers Bio-fertilizer culture specific to the crop is to be used @ 25 g per kg of seed. Sticker solution is necessary for effective seed inoculation. This can be prepared by dissolving 25 g jaggery or sugar in 250 ml water and boiling for 5 minutes. The solution thus prepared is cooled. Smear the seeds well using the required quantity of sticker solution. Then add culture to the seeds and mix thoroughly so as to get a fine coating of culture on the seed. The culture-coated seeds is to be dried well in shade to avoid clumping of seeds. Use the inoculated seeds for sowing. Top of page c.Seedling treatment Root dipping with Azospirillum: Prepare slurry with 5 packets (1000 g/ha) of Azospirillum and 5 packets (1000g/ha) of Phosphobacteria or 10 packets of Azophos (2000 g/ha) in 40 litres of water and dip the root portion of the seedlings in the solution for 15-30 minutes and transplant the seedlings. Top of page d.Soil application Soil application is the best way to deliver nutrients to plants. Soil application of fertilizers are much more efficient than foliar sprays. They improve the uptake and utility of primary and secondary nutrients. Mix 12.5 kg/ha of micronutrient mixture formulated by the Agriculture Department with enough sand to make a total quality of 50 kg/ha and apply the mixture evenly on the beds. Apply 10 packets/ha (2000 g) of azospirillum and 10 packets (2000 g/ha) of Phosphorous solubilizing bacteria or 20 packets of Azophos (4000 g/ha) after mixing with 25 kg of soil and 25 kg FYM before transplanting. Soil treatment with biofertilizers: Azospirillum (2 kg/ha) and Phosphobacteria (2 kg/ha) of the recommended biofertilizers are mixed with in 20 to 25kg of compost and kept overnight. This mixture is incorporate in the soil at the time of sowing or planting. Top of page e.Foliar application It refers to the spraying of fertilizer solutions containing one or more nutrients on the foliage of growing plants. Several nutrient elements are readily absorbed by leaves when they are dissolved in water and sprayed on them. The concentration of the spray solution has to be controlled, otherwise serious damage may result due to scorching of the leaves. Foliar application is effective for the application of minor nutrients like iron, copper, boron, zinc and manganese. Sometimes insecticides are also applied along with fertilizers. Urea 2% foliar spray at 40 and 50 day after sowing increased the grain yield of Ragi Foliar spray of Poatssium chloride 1% Foliar spray of micronutrient for nutrient deficiencies of ragi crop. Top of page Integrated Nutrient Management Integrated nutrient management (INM) is the system of rationalization of the plant nutrition management to upgrade the efficiency of plant nutrient supply through adequate association of local and external nutrient sources accessible and affordable to the farmers. Combined application of organic manures and chemical fertilizers generally produces higher crop yields than their sole application. This increase in crop productivity may be due to the combined effect of nutrient supply, synergism and improvement in soil physical and biological properties. Locally available various organic sources like coir pith, pressmud, FYM and copper ore tailings (COT) can be judiciously used to enhance the yield and profitability of crops. The coir pith is produced to an extent of 30,000 to 40,000 tonnes in south Karnataka, particularly in Hiriyur, Hosadurga and Arsikere talukas of central dry zone of Karnataka. Since the coir pith has 47-52% lignin difficulty decomposable, which can be converted easily into compost by use of pleurotus sojar caju with standard technology developed at UAS, Bangalore and can be used with other available organic and inorganic sources of nutrients for the crop production. The use of FYM along with chemical fertilizers increased the fertilizer use efficiency and sustained the soil health and productivity of the cropping system. Top of page Components Soil Source Mobilizing unavailable nutrients and to use appropriate crop varieties, cultural practices and cropping system. Mineral Fertilizer Super granules, coated urea, direct use of locally available rock PO4 in acid soils, Single Super Phosphate (SSP), MOP and micronutrient fertilizers. Apply the fertilizer as per the blanket recommendation Organic Sources By products of farming and allied industries. FYM, droppings, crop waste, residues, sewage, sludge, industrial waste. Apply Farm Yard manure or Compost or Coir pith at the rate of 12.5 ton/ha Biological Sources Microbial inoculants substitute 15 - 40 Kg N/ha Azospirillum (2 kg/ha) and Phosphobacteria (2 kg/ha) of the recommended biofertilizers are mixed with in 20 to 25kg of compost and kept overnight. This mixture is incorporate in the soil at the time of sowing or planting. Apply 10 packets /ha (2kg) of Azospirillum inoculant after mixing with 25 kg of soil and 25 kg of farmyard manure before transplanting. Azospirillum (1000g/ha) and Phosphobacteria (1000g/ha) are mixed in water and dip the roots of the seedlings in the soulution and transplanted. Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Crop Protection Pest Disease Pest Pink stem borer White stem borer Leaf folder Cut worm Flea beetle Black hairy caterpillar Grasshopper Stink bug Earhead caterpillar Earhead bug Root aphid Ragi jassid Root grub Yellow aphid Brown aphid Weevil Top of page Pink Stem Borer, Sesamia inferens i.Symptoms of damage Larva congregates inside the leaf whorls and feed on the central leaves causing typical ‘pin hole’ symptom The central shoot turns brownish and dries out, although the lower leaves remain green and healthy, called as ‘dead heart’ Bored holes are plugged with excreta. White ear symptom appears during panicle initiation stage, the empty panicles become very conspicuous in a field because they remain straight and whitish Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Egg: Creamy white spherical shape eggs laid in clusters in the leaves and stem of the plant. Incubation period is 8 days Larva: Pinkish brown, smooth and cylindrical with reddish brown head. Laval period is 22 days Pupa: Dark brown with purple tinge in head. Pupate inside the stem. Pupation period is 8 days Adult: medium sized, pale yellow brown moths. Fore wings are light brown with two black spots. Hind wings are white with light yellow scales along the major veins Top of page iii.Control Measures Cultural: In the initial stage, pull out and destroy dead-hearts Crop rotation with short duration non-graminaceous crop Biological: Apply bio control agents- Telenomus sp., Trichogramma minutum (egg parasites) and Apanteles flavipes, Bracon drinensis (larval parasites) and Tetrastichus ayyari (pupal parasites) Chemical: Application of optimal rate of nitrogeneous fertilizer in split doses Spray Methyl Parathion 50EC 1ml/lit or Phosphomidan 85WSC 0.5ml/lit or Dimethoate 30EC 1.7ml/lit Spray Carbaryl 50WP @ 1Kg/ha Mechanical: Set up light trap Top of page White Stem Borer, Saluria inficita i.Symptoms of damage The damage is similar to other stem borer, but caterpillar attacks the plant at root region. If the damage is severe, central shoot may die causing "Dead Heart'. If it is partial, the plants may turn yellow. Larva found at the base of tillers close to soil level and attacks the basal part of the plants. Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Egg: The eggs are laid in batches of about 100 and are covered with silky greyish hairs; they resemble the eggs of the yellow stem borer. The incubation period is about 8 days. The female white stem borer lays the eggs near the tip of the leaf blade. Larva: Creamy white with yellow head Pupa: Brown, obtect type, pupates inside the stem Adult: Ddark brown, with white band along the margin of each forewing Top of page iii.Control Measures Spray carbaryl 50 WP 1 kg per ha Spray Methyl parathion 50 EC 1 ml/litre or Phosphamidon 85 WSC 0.5 ml/litre or Dimethoate 30 EC 1.7ml/litre. Top of page Leaf Folder, Cnaphalocrocis Medinalis i.Symptoms of damage Larva removes the leaf tissues Folds a leaf blade together and glues it with silk strands Feeds inside the folded leaf creating longitudinal white (White patches) and transparent streaks on the blade Shaded conditions and application of excess nitrogen are conducive for leaf folder attack Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Egg: Each female lay 300 eggs on both sides of leaves. It is oblong and whitish yellow in colour. Egg period is 4 to 6 days Larva: Yellowish green larvae with brown or black head. One or two pair of sub dorsal spots on mesanotum. Larval period is 15 to 20 days Pupa: Pupa is brown colour later turns to reddish brown colour. Pupation takes place inside the leaf folder. Pupal period is 6 to 10 days Adult: Whitish yellow or golden yellow with three dark black oblique lines on the fore wings and broad anal area on hind wings. Adult period is one week Top of page iii.Correction Measures Cultural: Crop rotation with non cereal crops Use of balanced fertilizer dose and avoid using excessive nitrogen fertilizer Surrounding grass habitats should be maintained Avoid close planting Collect and destroy the affected leaves Biological: Release of egg parasitoid Trichogramma chilonis @ 1 lakh / ha starting from 15 Days after planting(DAP) for 5-6 times at 7-10 days intervals Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) based commercial bio-pesticides may be sprayed @1kg or 1lit/ha (Dipel, Delfin, Biodart, Thuricide, Bioasp, Biolep, HIL Btk) at 7-10 days intervals in the evening hours Chemical: Apply any one of the insecticides- monocrotophos 1.6 ml, Chlorpyriphos 2.5 ml or Quinalphos 2.5 ml or Acephate 1 gm or Carbaryl 3 gm or Cartap hydrochloride2 gm/lit to be sprayed two times at 10 days interval or apply cartap hydrochloride 4G 10Kg/acre Foliar spraying of NSKE @5% or neem oil 0.5% or neem based commercial bio-pesticides 300ppm @ 2.5lit/ha or 1500 ppm @ 1.5lit./ha Mechanical: Set up light trap Dragging a rope across the field to dislodge larvae of leaf-folder Top of page Cut Worm, Spodoptera exigua i.Symptoms of damage The larvae feed on the leaves especially in the nursery. It scraps the green matter of the leaf tissue and the leaves shows as skeletonized appearance The young cutworm feeds on plant without cutting off the stems or leaves. Later it begins to cut off foliage. They emerge at night to feed on the roots and shoots of ragi plants and hide in the soil during day time. Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Eggs: Lays clusters of pearly white and round eggs on the lower portion of young plants Larva: Stout, soft bodied, brownish green larvae with wavy lines on dorsal surface and yellow stripe laterally. Larva period is 10-16 days Pupa: pupate in the soil in earthern cocoons. Pupal period is 7-11 days Adult: brownish moth with white hind wings Top of page iii.Correction Measures Cultural: Remove weeds and plant residues Avoid using green manure as this may encourage egg laying, instead use compost. Encourage hungry birds to visit your garden by placing birdbaths and feeders near the planting beds. Biological: Apply beneficial nematodes, Steinerema carpocapsae or insect-infecting fungi like Beauveria bassiana when the cutworms first appear in the spring. Nematodes attack the cutworms by laying eggs inside the caterpillar. Place bran mixed with Bacillus thuringiensis, an organic control for caterpillars, over the surface of new planting beds one week prior to planting. Release trichogramma wasps weekly for three consecutive weeks to parasitize cutworm eggs Chemical: Spray Carbaryl50WP @ 2.5Kg/ha, Chlorpyriphos 20EC@2lit/ha,Phasolone35 EC@1.25 lit/ha Mechanical: Place aluminum foil or cardboard collars around transplant stem at planting time. This creates a barrier that physically prevents cutworm larvae from feeding on plants. Top of page Flea Beetle, Chaetocnema pusaensis i.Symptoms of damage Adult bites and makes holes in the leaves of young plants and affects their vigour both in the nursery and in the young transplanted crop. Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Adult: Dark blue beetle with enlarged hid femur. Top of page iii.Control Measures Weed control in and around planting sites to deprive larvae of food sources needed for successful development Removal of old crop debris and other surface trash to deprive over wintering beetles protective cover. Efficacy of seed dressing insecticides against flea beetle: Damage was less in carbosulfan @ 6.25 g a.i. /kg of seed (3.88%) and was on par with imidacloprid @ 6 g and 3 g a.i. / kg of seed (4.66 and 5.9%, respectively) and thiamethoxam @ 3.5 g a.i / kg (6.13%). Top of page Black Hairy Caterpillar, Estigmene lactinea i.Symptoms of damage Larvae feeds on the young leaves causes defoliation They feed by scrapping the green matter of the leaf Such leaves gives the appearance of skeleton Finally devour the entire plant leaving the veins. Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Egg: Eggs are laid on the plants Larva: Thick with black head and hairs all over the body Pupa: Pupates in soil Adult: Large white moth with crimson markings on head, body and wings Top of page iii.Control Measures Remove weeds and plant residues Avoid using green manure as this may encourage egg laying, instead use compost. Spray Carbaryl50 WP@4g/lit, Methomyl 40WP@1.6g/lit, Dust the crop with malathion 5% @ 25 Kg/ha or Methyl parathion 2% or Fenvalerate 0.4% Top of page Grasshopper, Chrotogonus trachypterus i.Symptoms of damage The nymphs and adults feed on the leaf by consuming large amounts of leaves. They make marginal notchings or holes on the leaves. In case of severe infestation, they defoliate entire leaves and the field looks like grazed appearance. Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Egg: Grasshopper lays cluster of eggs in soil. Eggs laid in oval, elongate or curved pods made out of soil particles. Eggs may be white, yellow green, tan, or various shades of brown. Nymph: Newly hatched nymphs are white. After several hours of exposure to sunlight, they assume the distinctive colors and markings of adults. Nymphal period is 35 to 50 days Adult: stout, greenish brown colour with yellow stripe on the sides Top of page iii.Control Measures Cultural: Clean tillage after harvest will destroy the grasshopper’s eggs or expose them so that they dry out or are eaten by birds and other insects Trap cropping Early seeding and early harvest Summer fallowing Crop rotation Biological: Spidersfeed on grasshoppers and consume large numbers of nymphs and adults Blister beetles, ground beetles and crickets eat the eggs of grasshoppers The fungus, Entomophthora grylli, can effectively control grasshoppers under warm, humid conditions The microsporidian parasite, Nosema locustae, reduces the number of eggs laid and restricts the movement of individuals and thus affects grasshopper populations. Chemical: Spray Carbaryl50 WP 400g Top of page Stink Bug, Nezara Viridula i.Symptoms of damage The bugs feed by piercing plant tissue with needle-like stylets. The actual feeding puncture is not immediately visible. Adults and nearly all nymphal stages (2nd to 5th nymphal stages) feed on a variety of plant tissue. Succulent parts of the plant and the developing flowers are preferred. Feeding injury becomes visible sometime after actual feeding. Feeding on flower buds results in premature abscission Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Eggs Eggs are deposited on the undersides of leaves in clusters of 40 to 130 (average 70 - 75 eggs). The eggs are yellow-white when laid. In 4 - 5 days the eggs turn pink and become red orange a day later. Eggs hatch in 5 - 8 days. Nymphs All nymphs are about as broad as long, dark in color, with red and white or yellow markings on their bodies. The nymphs do not have wings, and they also have glands that emit the strong, characteristic odor. Adults The adult stink bug is shield-shaped, 1/2 to 3/4 inch long, and approximately 5/16 inch wide. They are usually apple or jade green color, but may occasionally be a reddish brown. Adults can live for several months. Top of page iii.Control Measures Monitor weed hosts surrounding the crop field. Grow trap crop around the field, can help to intercept migrating stink bugs Telenomus podisi and T. utahensis, two scelionid wasp egg parasitoids, will help suppress stink bug populations. Spiders, ants prey upon eggs and young nymphs Top of page Ear head caterpillar, Euproctis subnotata i.Symptoms of damage It affects mostly at panicle formation stage. The caterpillars feed on developing grains and destroy the grains inside the panicles. They produce webs of silken threads in the panicle Compact panicles are prone to heavy damage. Affected panicles will be filled with frass. Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Egg: Spherical transparent white eggs are laid in masses (6 to 24 eggs in each) and covered by orange-yellow hairs Larva: The hairy caterpillar is smaller, dark brown with a wide yellow band and less hairy. An orange-red line runs along the yellow band. Larval period is 15 to 40 days Pupa: It pupates in the soil. Pupal period is one month. Adult: The adult moths have brown forewings with dark scales. The hind wings are yellow Top of page iii.Control Measures Cultural method Cultural practices, including intercropping, time of sowing, spacing, water/nutrition management, and crop rotation may be effective in certain locations. Chemical method Spray Malathion 0.1% and Carbaryl 0.1% Mechanical method Setup light trap till midnight to monitor, attract and kill the adult moths. Setup sex pheromone traps @ 12 /ha to attract male moths of E. subnotata from flowering to grain hardening. Top of page Ear Head Bug, Calocoris Angustatus i.Symptoms of damage This insect appears before flowering stage and continuing up to milky stage Nymphs and adult suck the juice from within the grains when they are in the milky stage. Presence of large number of nymphs and adults are seen on the ear head The infestation results in loss of grain quality and damaged grains become unfit for human consumption. Under severe infestation panicle becomes chaffy. Damage also reduces the germination and predisposes the grains to mold attack. Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Egg - Blue cigar shaped, laid under the glumes or into the middle of the florets Nymphs - Slender, green in colour Adults - Male is green in colour. Female is green with a brown margin Top of page iii.Control Measures Cultural method: Early planting reduces the infestation of the pest Crop rotation Chemical method: Application of Carbaryl 50 SP @ 3 Kg in 500 litre of water/ha on panicles Top of page Root Aphid, Tetraneura nigriabdominalis i.Symptoms of damage Aphid remains at the base of the plant and suck the sap. The infested plants turn pale yellow and become stunted. Wilting and drying of plants in patches is the typical symptom. Presence of honey dew and ants on plants are the indication of aphids. It occurs on many grasses too. Nymph and adult attack underground parts of the plants, they suck sap from roots. Plants become weak and may wilt. Top of page ii.Identification of the pest The adult is small and oval. Its color ranges from greenish, to brownish white, to yellow, and to dark orange. There are two adult forms: the winged and nonwinged forms. The winged adults are 1.5-2.3 mm long. The nonwinged forms are 1.5-2.5 mm long. All adults are females. The nymph is globular and tan or brown. Top of page iii.Control Measures Mixing crude oil in irrigation water is a common method for its control. Mix Dimethoate 30EC 3 ml in one litre of water and drench the rhizosphere of the infested and surrounding plant with solution to check the root aphid Spray the crop with Dimecron 100EC (250 ml/ha in 1000 litres of water). Spray carbaryl 50 WP @ 1 kg/ha (500 l spray fluid/ha). Top of page Ragi Jassid, Cicadulina Bipunctella i.Symptoms of damage Nymphs and adults suck the sap from underside of the leaves and stems It causes yellowing of leaves and stunted growth It is an important vector of ragi mosaic virus Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Nymph:Pale greenish almost tranuslucent and walk diagonally. Nymphal period is 7 to 9 days Adult: small, brown colored, wedge shaped. Adults live for 2 to 3 weeks Top of page iii.Control Measures Spray Dimethoate 30 EC @ 1.7 ml/lit or Phosphomidan 100 EC 0.5 ml/lit or Monocrotophos 36 EC 2ml/lit. Top of page Root Grub, Holotrichia consanguinea i.Symptoms of damage Death of grown up plants. Leaves and tender shoots nibbled. Grub feed on the root and rootlets, results in the death of the plants. Adults nibble on the leaves and tender shoots. They can move under soil, thus can migrate from one plant to another. Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Grub is fleshy, ‘C’ shaped, whitish yellow in colour found close to the base of the dump. Adult is dark brown. Top of page iii.Control Measures Cultural control: Deep ploughing in summer Always use well decomposed organic manure as it attacts the adult beetles Crop rotation with pulses, cotton etc Early sowing to avoid damage due to insect pest Mechanical Control: Collection and destruction of white grub adults Biological Control: Conserve braconids,dragon flies, trichogrammatids, NPV, green muscardine fungus Top of page Yellow Aphid, Schizaphis graminum i.Symptoms of damage Nymphs and adults suck the sap of the plant They causes yellowing of leaves and stunted growth of plant Wilting and drying of plants in patches Presence of honey dew and ants on plants Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Adult: greenish yellow aphids Top of page iii.Control Measures Spray methyl demeton 25 EC@ 20 ml/ha or dimethoate 30 EC@ 20 ml/ha (mixed 10lit of water using high volume sprayer) Top of page Brown Aphid, Hysteroneura setariae i.Symptoms of damage Adults and nymphs appear on the tender shoots, leaves and on the lower surface of the leaves Suck the sap and reduce the vigour of the plant Feeding causes yellowing of the leaves Secrete sweet substances which attract ants and develops sooty mould Presence of honey dew and ant movement on plants In severe infestation causes stunted growth Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Adult: Brown coloured aphids Top of page iii.Control Measures Summer ploughing Use resistant varieties Timely planting Intercropping with pulses, sorghum, maize etc., Use of healthy seeds for sowing Spray methyl demeton 25 EC@ 20 ml/ha or dimethoate 30 EC@ 20 ml/ha (mixed 10lit of water using high volume sprayer) Top of page Weevil, Myllocerus discolor i.Symptoms of damage The young grub feeds on roots of ragi plant Ladder shaped cutting of leaves, Leaf margins are notched resulting in wilting of plants in patches. Plants come off easily when pulled. Roots are eaten away by grubs. Adult feeds on leaves. Top of page ii.Identification of the pest Eggs: Small, ovid and cream colored Grub: C shaped, creamy white with brown heads and legeless Pupa: Creamy white and resemble adults, and are found in earthern cells in the soil Adult: Whitish grey with an irregular pattern of dark spots dorsally. The snout is short and quadrate and slightly expanded towards the apex. The antennae are clubbed and elbowed Top of page iii.Control Measures Frequent hoeing and interculture disturb and kill the grubs of the grey weevil Top of page Disease Blast Seedling blight Foot rot or Wilt Smut Downy mildew Mosaic virus Mottle streak Bacterial leaf spot Top of page Blast, Piricularia Grisea i.Symptoms of damage Infects at any stage of the growth from the seedling to the grain formation stage The infection appears in the nursery from second week of after germination and spread quickly to entire nursery as well as to main field. Small brown circular to elongated spots appear on leaves which eventually develop into large elongated spindle shaped areas in the seedling stage. Young leaves dry completely in the nursery itself The spindle shaped spots appear on leaves in the main field. Several spots coalesce and cause drying of foliage Maximum damage is caused by the neck infection. The neck region turns black and shrinks. Infection occurs at the basal portions of the panicle branches including the fingers and the ear head breaks away from the stalk. The affected portions turn brown and ears become chaffy and only few shriveled grains are formed Top of page ii.Identification of pathogen Mycelium is intra and inter-cellular Numerous conidiophores and conidia are produced in the central portion of the spindle shaped spots under humid conditions. As a result, the spot assumes a smoky appearance Condiophores emerge through the stomata or through the epidermal cells are simple septate and dark coloured Conidia are borne at the tip of the conidiaphores Conidia are pyriform, 3 celled, hyaline, 2 septate Conidia germinate with germ tubes which infect the leaf wither through epidermal cells or stomata Top of page iii.Control Measures Use disease free seeds Grow resistant varieties like CO RA (14), Paiyur (RA)-2, GPU-28,GPU-45,GPU-48, L-5 Proper plant spacing and transplanting is advisable Early sowing reduces the blast severity Spray Pseudomonas sp. at 2 g/lit of water. First spray immediately after noticing the symptom. Second and Third sprays at flowering stage at 15 days interval Treat the seed with Pseudomonas fluorescens @ 6g/Kg seed and spray the extracts of Prosopis juliflora leaf extract (10%), Ipomoea carnea leaf extract (10%) Foliar spray with Aureofungin sol (100ppm) at 50% earhead emergence followed by a second spray of Pseudomonas sp. at 2g/lit of water 10 days later Seed treatment with carbendazim @ 1 gm/Kg of seed Treat the seeds with local materials like salt water and cown unrine Spray Carbendazim 0.1% in nursery 10-12 days after sowing. Repeat the spray 20-25 days after transplanting and 40 to 45 days after transplanting Treat the seeds with Agrosan G.N. or Ceresan @2.5g/Kg seed or Tricyclozole @ 1g/kgof seeds Spray SAAF @ 0.2% at 50% flowering and one more need based spray after 10 days was effective in controlling neck and finger blast Top of page Seedling blight, Helminthosporium nodulosum i.Symptoms of damage It causes severe damage during years with high continuous rainfall. This disease occurs throughout the life cycle of finger millet plant and may infect all parts of the plant. The pathogen affects both seedling and the adult plants minute, oval, light brown lesions on the young leaves and become dark brown Several such lesions coalesce to form large patches of infection on the leaf blade. The affected blades wither prematurely and the seedlings may be killed. Linear oblong and dark brown spots appear on the leaves of grown up plants Prominent brown to dark brown discoloration in the neck region and followed by weakening of neck tissue that causes it to break and the ears hanging down from the plant While nursery infection causes heavy damage due to the seedling rot, neck infection causes heavy chaffiness and severe loss in grain yield. It is seed-borne and primary infection is through seed Secondary infection through air borne conidia, stubbles and plant debris Top of page ii.Identification of pathogen The mycelium is intra and inter-cellualr septate and light brown in colour Conidia are erect or curved septate and dark brown. They are borne at the tip of conidiophores Condiaphores are thick walled cylindrical or obcavate straight or curved and light green in color and 3-10 septate The spores germinate either through the stomata or epidermal cells. 11 spores may be formed in one conidiophore Top of page iii.Control Measures Cultural: Uproot and destroy the diseased plant soon after detecting in the field Chemical: Treat the seeds with Captan or Thiram @4g/Kg Spray Mancozeb @ 1.25Kg/ha Spray 1% Bordeaux mixture or Copper oxy chloride or DithaneZ-78 (2g/lit. water) Top of page Foot Rot or Wilt, Sclerotium Rolfsii i.Symptoms of damage The infected plants remain green and stunted. The fungus attacks the basal stem portion and later the leaf sheath and culm. The infected portion becomes soft and dark brown in colour. The fungus is seen to grow in between the sheath and stem on the lesions. The plant ultimately dies. On the surface of lesions, small, spherical, dark coloured sclerotia are formed. Top of page ii.Identification of pathogen The pathogen forms a submerged vegetative mycelium consisting of single hyphae and an aerial mycelium composed of both single hyphae and hyphal strands. Sclerotial initials are formed on these hyphal strands Sclerotia (0.5-2.0mm diameter) begin to develop after 4-7 days of mycelial growth (2,10). Initially a felty white appearance, sclerotia quickly melanize to a dark brown coloration Sclerotia contain viable hyphae and serve as primary inoculum for disease development. Top of page iii.Control Measures Keeping the plants healthy and robust, and providing good drainage and other optimum soil conditions, help to avoid the disease. Deep ploughing before sowing and proper crop sequences involving non-poaceous crops reduces disease intensity. Spot drench with Copper oxychloride at 0.25 per cent for prevent spread of disease. Top of page Smut, Melanopsichium eleusinis i.Symptoms of damage The disease appears only at the time of grain setting The smutted grains scattered randomly in the ear head The affected grains gets converted into gall like bodies which are bigger than normal grains Greenish swollen grains appear in the initial stages The greenish sorus turns to pinkish green and finally turn to dirty black colour Top of page ii.Identification of pathogen Spores are globose in shape and 7 to 11 microns in diameter The epispore is densely pitted and has a rough surface The spores germinate readily in water, producing septate promycelia Sporidia are formed on these both terminally and laterally Top of page iii.Control Measures Use resistant varieties Top of page Downy Mildew, Sclerophthora Macrospora i.Symptoms of damage The infected plants are dwarf in appearance with shortened internodes. The leaves are formed closely and thus give a bushy and bunchy appearance.The leaves become pale green. The symptom is well expressed on the earhead which bears abnormal spikelets exhibiting various degrees of proliferation instead of normal spikelet. The whole earhead gives a brush like appearance. Top of page ii.Identification of pathogen Infected plant reveals the systemic mycelium of the fungus Sclerophthora macrospora within the crowns, stems, and leaves. A few axillary buds may escape the colonizing hyphae emanating from the crown tissue and may produce an occasional healthy tiller free of mycelium. Mycelium has not been observed to progress far in roots. Mycelium is coenocytic, multinucleate, intercellular. Narrow "extension" hyphae, closely associated with vascular bundles, carry the fungus up the leaf sheaths. Localized branching and proliferation of these hyphae into tissue between the bundles occurs, increasingly so in the upper sheath. Massive development of multidiameter mycelium occurs in the lamina, again associated initially with the bundles. sporangiophores which protrude through the stomata and produce six or more lemon-shaped, apically poroid sporangia. Sporangia mature rapidly, each releasing 50 or more motile zoospores. Zoospores are ovoid to pyriform in shape. Top of page iii.Control Measures Affected plants should be destroyed by burning. Keep the field clean. In case of severe attack spray Dithane M-45 on the standing crop at the rate of 2 g/litre of water. Top of page Mosaic, Virus i.Symptoms of damage Infection may occur at all stages of plant growth but the symptoms become most prominent from 4 to 6 weeks after planting. The first symptom is Chlorosis, followed by mosaic mottling and severe stunting of the plant. The entire plant becomes pale, dwarfed and sterile. Rarely the affected plants come to ear and if formed the panicle is mostly chaffy. Closer examination of the plant may reveal such symptoms as characteristic dark brown lesions on the basal stem as found in Helminthosporium rots, secondary root formation from the nodes much above ground level, and fungal masses in the split open culm. As the disease advances, the plants wither prematurely and the diseased crop is easily identified from a distance. The loss in grain yield may be as high as 100 per cent, depending upon the age of the plant at the time of infection. A dry summer and bad drought conditions preceding the irrigated crop are believed to favor the disease. Top of page ii.Identification of pathogen Some strains of the sugarcane mosaic virus and maize dwarf mosaic virus cause the ragi mosaic disease. Virions consist of a capsid. Virus capsid is not enveloped. Capsid/nucleocapsid is elongated with helical symmetry. The capsid is filamentous, flexuous with a clear modal length with a length of 730-755 nm and a width of 13 nm. Axial canal is indistinct. Basic helix is obscure. Top of page iii.Control Measures Rogue out the affected plants Crop Rotation The disease intensity can be reduced with heavy doses of phosphatic fertilizers combined with fortnightly sprays with a combination of fungicide and insecticide Top of page Mottle Streak, Nucleorhabdovirus i.Symptoms of damage Initial symptoms of mottle streak disease appear around 45 days after sowing in funnel leaves as small sparse chlorotic specks. The virus affected plants are stunted and pale green in colour. Later the specks coalesce leading to short streaks. Yellowing of plants in severe infection. Infected plants produce more of nodal branches and unproductive tillers. Failure of earhead emergence with sparse grains is noticed during initial and late infection. Vector for this disease is leaf hopper, Cicadulina bipunctella, C.chinai Top of page ii.Identification of pathogen Nucleorhabdovirus or Potato Yellow Dwarf Virus is bacilliform, with one type of particle of about 380 x 75 nm. It is enveloped with a clear modal length of 178-224nm, 59-76 nm wide. Axial canal obvious; 8 nm in diameter Top of page iii.Control Measures Rogue out the affected plants Spray systemic insecticides Methyl dematon or Monocrotophos 500ml/ha. When noticing symptom and repeat twice if necessary at 20 days interval to control the vector Top of page Bacterial Leaf Spot, Xanthomonas campestris pv. eleusineae i.Symptoms of damage The typical symptom appears on both the surfaces of leaf as light yellowish to brown spots. They are linear, spreading along the veins. Later on the colour changes to dark brown and as the disease advances the leaf blade gets shredded by splitting along the streaks. Sometimes, the streak also appears on the peduncle of the ear head. Top of page ii.Identification of pathogen The bacterium is a rod with a single polar flagellum. Top of page iii.Control Measures Use healthy seeds for sowing. Top of page GALLERY Copyright © 2011 TNAU. All rights reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Farm Implements Tillage Implements Sowing Implements Post Harvest Implements Tillage Implements a. Disc Plough Special Features It is used for primary tillage and is especially useful in hard and dry, trashy, stony or stumpy land conditions and in soils where scouring is a major problem Specification Number of furrows : 2-4 Disc size : 600-800 mm Working depth : up to300 mm Power requirement : 25-50 hp, tractor Weight : 236-376 kg Top of page b. Cultivator Special Features It is used for seed bed preparation both in dry and wet soils. It is also used for interculture purpose and puddling purposes Specification Type : Tractor mounted Source of power : 35 hp, tractor Working depth : 140-170 mm Capacity : 0.35-0.5 ha Type of shovels : Reversible shoe type Weight : 120-130 kg Top of page c. Rotavator Special Features It is used in dry as well as wet land cultivation Specification Type : Tractor mounted Power soruce : 35 or above hp, tractor Working width : 1000-2000 mm Shape of blade : L- shape Revoultion of rotor shaft : 210-237 rpm Weight : 280-415 kg Top of page d.Mould Board Plough Special Features Suitable for primary tillage in canal irrigated or heavy rain areas where too much weeds grow.Completely invert and pulverize the soil, uproot all weeds, trash and crop residues and bury them under the soil Specification 1. Model MT-02 (M) 2. Max. Depth 22 cms 3. Working width 85 cms 4. Weight 225 kg 5. Tractor Compatibility 35 to 55 HP Top of page Sowing Implements a.Improved Broad Bed Former cum Seeder Special Features Suitable for sowing groundnut, Bengal gram, maize, millets and pulses in raised beds Coverage : 3.2 ha/day Saving in cost : 57% Saving in labour and time : 95% Specification Overall dimension : 2020 x 2050 x 1100 mm Weight : 370 kg No. of furrows : 2 Row and hill spacing : Adjustable Cost of the unit : Rs. 27000/- General information: The implement will form broad beds separated by furrows and simultaneously undertake sowing in rows on the bed formed. The unit can be hitched to the 3 point linkage of tractor. This unit consists of a sheet metal float which forms the broad beds separated by furrows at an interval of 160 cm. Over the sheet metal frame, seed hoppers and cup feed seed metering mechanism are provided. The drive for the seed metering device is taken from a projecting spoke type ground wheel which trails behind the furrow openers, on the bed. The furrow openers are made of cultivator shovels provided with wings. The depth of furrow opener can be adjusted with respect to bed surface. Top of page b.Broadcaster Special Features Uniform distribution of seeds. Specification Type : Manually operated Power requirement : One labour Overall dimensions : 360 x 510 x 420 mm Weight : 3.6Kg Capacity : 4 ha/day Cost of the unit : Rs.3000/- General Information: The centrifugal type unit that is hung in front of the operator is used to broadcast seeds and granular fertilizers by rotating the handle. The material is put in the hopper in batches of 3 to 5 kg and the operator has to walk while rotating the handle. The material is spread over a 3.5 to 10 m width. Top of page c.Tractor drawn Air Assisted Seed Drill Special Features To drill small seeded crops like, sesame, ragi, maize Cost of operation : Rs. 150/ha Saving Cost : 55% Saving in time : 92% Specification Type : Tractor mounted Power Requirement : 35 – 45 hp tractor (PTO operated) Capacity : 5 ha per day Cost of the Unit : Rs 35,000/- General Information: The unit consists of an air blower and drive, seed hopper and feeding device, seed distributor head, seed tubes, furrow opener ground wheel and furrow closer. The above components mounted on a 9 tyne cultivator. Blower is used to blow air through a vertical distributor tube to the distributor head. Seed is metered by the ground wheel into the air stream in controlled manner. The stream of seed is distributed to the 9 furrow openers by the distributor head. This ensures uniform drilling of fine seeds. Top of page d.Birsa Animal Drawn Seed Drill Special Features It is suitable for sowing paddy, ragi, wheat, linseed, gram, safflower and other small sized seeds. It saves 56% labour and operating time and 25% on cost of operation It also results in 14 to 27% increase in yield Specification Type : Bullock drawn Dimensions (mm) : 850 x 440x 170 Cost of the implement : Rs. 650/- Capacity : 0.03ha per hour Power source : A pair of bullocks Developed by : BAU, Ranchi in 1979-82 General Information: In this machine, seeds are dropped by a rubber agitator and silt hole while the fertilizer is dropped manually using the funnel provided for that purpose. Only the ground wheel drives the agitator for the seeds and a small ridger type furrow opener is used to reduce the draft on the animal. Top of page e.Tractor Mounted Seed Drill Special Features It is suitable for sowing of small seed such as rapeseed, mustard and millets. It results in 20-25 per cent increase in yield Specification Type : Tractor drawn Cost : Rs.10,000/- Cost of operation : Rs. 200 per hectare Filed capacity : 0.18 per hectare Field efficiency : 62% Labour requirement : 3 man per hectare Developed by : GBPUAT, Pantnagar in 1988-92 Top of page f.Bullock drawn harrower Special Features It is used for inter-cultivation operation by attaching dug foot for removing weed from standing crop. Small wheel of bullock drawn harrower do not crush the crop during inter-cultivation operation. Two drives are attached near operator’s seat, which help to adjust the depth in the soil. Specification Type : Bullock drawn Field efficiency :7.7 hours Cost of the harrow : Rs.1500/- General Information: Small harrows are suitable for use with animal power. They can be moved in the inter-row spaces and used for removing the weeds effectively. The sweeps are blades that move horizontally under the soil and the shallow rooted weeds are easily pulled out. The sweep used with the central line has horizontal wings extending on both the sides and the sweeps used with the side lines have the wing on the right or left away from the crop rows. Top of page Post Havest Implements a.Improved Sickles of Different Designs Special Features It is a harvesting tool used for the harvesting of vegetables, cereal and millet crops and cutting of the grass and other vegetable matters Specification Type : Hand operated Blade thickness : 1.5 – 4, tapered to the cutting edge Weight : 150 – 400 g General information: It consists of curved steel edged blade fixed to the wooden handled the cutting edge may be plain or serrated depending upon the design. The curvature of the blade differs widely in plain edged and serrated sickles. The blade is fabricated from medium carbon or high carbon steel and hardened to resist wear. The blade has a knife section and thickness reduces towards the cutting edge. The tang of the blade is inserted in to the wooden handle for joining the blade to the handle. The wooden handle is either straight or bent at the end. Top of page b.Multi Crop Thresher (TNAU, Coimbatore) Special Features It is suitable for threshing paddy, ragi, jowar, maize, sunflower, wheat etc. Robust construction 50% extra output then other threshers High quality material like steel, bearings, pulleys, V-belts etc. More efficiency resulting in better performance in less fuel consumption Specification Dimension : 3420x2430x2330 Power requirement : 35, Tractor or 20 Electric motor Capacity (kg/h) : 600-1000 General information: The thresher consists of threshing cylinder, oscillating box, straw walker, and winnowing and cleaning attachment. The rasp-bar cylinder is made of cast iron rings, sheet metal and toothed racks and is fitted on the main shaft running on two numbers of heavy pedal bearings. Various pulleys of different sizes are fitted on this shaft to transmit power to winnowing and fan attachment. Adjustments for cylinder and blower speeds and concave clearance are provided to make the machine suitable for various crops. Top of page c.SBI Grain Thresher Features This mobile thresher is suitable for most grain types, including rice, wheat, maize, sunflower, sorghum and millet. The threshing unit primarily comprises of a threshing drum, winnower and straw walkers. This assembly is mounted on a two wheeled trailer with pneumatic tyres. A drawbar with a yoke is provided for transportation by a pair of bullocks or the thresher can be drawn by a tractor. An electric motor or small engine is required to power the machine. Top of page d.Grain winnower Special Features To winnow and clean all grains after threshing It is a continuous type. It is suitable for other grains also. The efficiency of the unit is 97% Specification Dimension : 2130 x 600 x 1320 Capacity : 500 - 750 kg/h Power required : 1 hp electric motor Cost of the unit : Rs.30, 000/- Cost of operation (approx) : Rs. 25/h General Information This machine winnows and cleans the paddy and other grains after threshing. It consists of a feed hopper to hold the grain for cleaning. It discharges the grain over a scalper and removes bigger size impurities. A blower provided at the bottom passes air against the grain falling through the scalper which separates the straw, chaff and other impurities. The dust, chaff and straw are collected separately and cleaned paddy is taken out through another outlet near the bottom of the unit. Top of page f.Seed Grader- Screen Special Features It is used for cleaning and grading of seeds of all crops Specification Capacity : 1.5-2 tonne/ha Dimension : 3060x2500x2470 Electric motor : 5.6 KW Cost : Rs. 12,500/- General Information: The seed grader has built-in cyclone dust collectors, various air regulations arrangement, adjustable feeding level and feed control, interchangeable screens and double air aspiration system, pneumatic feedings, dynamically balanced double aspirator fans, air chamber and sieve deck assembly. All these units are mounted on a sturdy machine frame. Before falling on top screen, grains are subjected to primary aspiration, which drains off chaff, straw, dust, deceased grains etc. Material is then passed through two sieve layers for separation. After passing through screen cleaned/graded material again passes through air sifter and aspiration where remaining light particles are sucked off by a strong upward draught of air. Final product and impurities are collected separately through discharge chutes. Top of page g.Seed Grader – Screen with Indented Cylinder Special Features It is used for cleaning and grading of seeds of all crops. Specification Dimension : 3160 x 1460 x 2560 Capacity (t/h) : 2 Electric motor (kW) : 7.1 General Information: It consists of feed hopper with feed roller and feed control gate, set of sieves, dynamically balanced aspirator fan, step less variable air controls, air chamber, sieve deck assembly, spouts, and indented cylinder grader. All these are mounted on a sturdy steel frame. Seeds/Grains are fed into a feed hopper where they are evenly distributed by a feed roller and drop through a controlled gate on the top sieve. Before falling on top screen grains are subjected to primary aspiration, which drains off chaff, straw, dust, deceased grains etc. Material is then passed through two sieve layers for separation according to width and thickness. After passing through screens, cleaned/graded material again passes through air sifter and aspiration where remaining light particles are sucked off by a strong upward draught of air. After size grading, material passes through indented cylinder grader for removing impurities based on length. Final product and impurities are collected separately through discharge chutes. Top of page g.Mini Millet Mill Special Features It is suitable for soybean, red gram, black gram, green gram and cereals like rice, sorghum, ragi, wheat etc. The mini millet mill consists of a feed hopper at the top of the unit with a feed regulating mechanism. "Mini millet mill" consists of a water mixer, a plate grinder, and various sifter attachments. It is a versatile device in which debranning and sizing the endosperm (into either flour or semolina) take place in a single operation. Specification Capacity : 30-40 Kg per hectare Power required (hp) Millet mill : 0.5 Flour mill : 1.5 Top of page h.Food extruder Special Features To produce value added products from millets. Finds industrial application for finger millet Other millets can also be extruded. For the extrusion cooking of finger millet (ragi) flours, a single screw laboratory model extruder is required. The flour is conditioned to moisture content for about 22% (wb), one hour prior to the extrusion. During conditioning, cassava flour to a level of 20% is added to increase the expansion, crispiness and acceptability. Extrusion is done at barrel temperature and screw speed 115ºC and 225 rpm, respectively. Specification Overall dimension : 960 x 750 x 600 mm Capacity : 10-20 kg/h Power required : 7.5 hp electric motor Cost of the unit : Rs.75,000/- Cost of operation : Rs.15 per kg Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Post Harvest Technology Harvesting Post Harvest Technology Value Added Products Harvesting Ragi matures 3-5 months after sowing, depending on variety, season and soil properties. Harvest the crop when the ears are yellowish brown. Heap the harvested ears and cover the heaps with ragi straw for 2-3 days before threshing. Dried earheads are beaten with sticks, sheaves are trodden by bullocks or crushed by stone rollers. Separated grains are winnowed and cleaned. Straw from irrigated plants is coarse and thick and is rarely cut. It is grazed down or sometimes turned under as manure for next crop Grain is higher in protein, fat and minerals than rice, corn, or sorghum. It is usually converted into flour and made into cakes, puddings, or porridge. The grain is used in the preparation of food items such as ragi dosa, ragi balls, pancake, vermicelli, malt, biscuit, beer, papads, millet mix, bread, roti etc. i.Stages of Harvesting Ragi matures 3 to 5 months after sowing, depending on variety, season and soil properties. When the earhead on the main shoot and 50% of the earheads on the crop turn brown, the crop is ready for the harvest. Rainfed crops are cut close to ground, stalks are allowed to wither for a day or two in field, and then bundled and stacked before threshing. The earhead do not have synchronous maturity. Therefore, staggered harvesting at weekly interval is recommended. First harvest Cut all earheads which have turned brown. Dry, thresh and clean the grains by winnowing. Second harvest Seven days after the first harvest, cut all the earheads including the green ones. Cure the grains to obtain maturity by heaping the harvested earheads in shade for one day without drying, so that the humidity and temperature increase and the grains get cured. Dry, thresh and clean the grains by winnowing and store the grains in gunnies. Top of page ii.Method of harvesting Harvesting is the process of gathering a crop. In ragi, harvesting refers to the cutting and gathering of earheads along the stalks. Once the plant attains maturity stage and the grains turns brown colour, harvesting process is commenced. Generally, harvesting is done manually. This is the most widely used method of harvesting. When the earheads turns brown color or at maturity stage, cut the earheads alone or cut the stalk along with ear heads by using sickles. Avoid harvesting during wet weather conditions Harvest the crop when the grains become hard and contain sufficient moisture Avoid pest infestation prior to harvesting Stalks are allowed to wither for one or two days in the field, then bundled and stocked for sometime depending upon the weather conditions before threshing. Top of page iii.Yield The average yield of rainfed crop ranges from 1.0 to 1.5 tonnes grain/ha, whereas irrigated crop yields up to 5.0 tonnes/ha. Yield depends on variety and is directly related to duration, height and tillering capacity of type grown. Types with straight spikes give better yields than those with curved spikes. The fodder yield ranges from 3.0 to 9.0 tonnes/ha in case early group and 9.5-10.0 tonnes/ha in late group. The straw of finger millet is a nutritious fodder. It can be conserved by putting up in well-built stakes. The yield attributes (range) of finger millet are as below Attribute Value Productive tillers (No.) 2-4.5 Finger number (No.) 5.12 Finger length (cm) 3-14 cm Grains/finger 22-81 1,000 grain weight (g) 1.0-4.5 Tips to increase grain yield Cytokinin 10 ppm foliar spray at 40 and 50 DAS increases the grain yield. Urea 2% foliar spray at 40 and 50 DAS increases the grain yield. Seed hardening with KCl 1% + CaCl2 1% under rainfed condition increases the grain yield. Ragi inter-cropped with green gram at 4:1 ratio recorded the highest income followed by 6:1 ratio (Rs.2239/ha) and 8:1 ratio against pure crop of ragi. Azospirillum either as seed treatment or furrow application in rainfed ragi after sowing saves N dose from 25-50% with a grain yield increase. Soaking finger millet seeds in CCC 5 ppm (or) cattle urine 10% solution (seed hardening) has given increased grain yield of 12 to 15% over unsoaked dry seeds. The cost of chemical (CCC) used for pre-sowing soaking seeds works out to Rs.1/- and the profit due to increased grain yield to Rs.150/-. An integrated nutrient management study revealed that addition of tank silt/ black soil at the rate of 80 t/ha accounted for marked increase in the yield of ragi (Paiyur 1). Further the addition of tank silt/ black soil had a very good residual effect on horse gram by increasing the yield. Besides, it also improved the soil organic matter content, CEC, WHC and fertility of the soil. Integrated weed management practice for rainfed direct seeded ragi revealed that post emergence application on the 10th day, either 2,4-D Na salt or 2,4- D Ethylester at 0.5 kg/ha recorded higher yield. Application of 50 kg N/ha in two splits at sowing and 20-30 DAS, with 20 kg P2O5 as enriched FYM at sowing was superior to top dressing of N at 25-30 DAS and P2O5 applied as straight fertilizer at sowing in rainfed ragi.. Delay in rainfall onset can be managed with sowing of short duration ragi culture DPI 2011 (95 days), while with normal onset of monsoon Paiyur 1 (110 days) can be followed. The intermittent dry spell can be overcome by incorporation of composted coir pith (5t/ha), random tie ridging and soil mulching with blade harrow. Application of RIF + EFYM to ragi – horse gram / cowpea crop sequence recorded the highest grain yield. Top of page Post Harvest Technology Curing and Drying Threshing Winnowing Grading Storage Milling Malting Top of page Curing and Drying The harvested ears of ragi is piled up as a heap in a cloth or gunny bag, tied up and allowed to steam inside for 3-4 days. This process matures the batch and all the ears become a beautiful uniform brown. Care is to be taken to ensure that the ears are dry when harvesting, no water ingress in this process and the harvest must be done only in dry weather conditions. After curing, the ragi ears are thoroughly dried depending on the time of the year, this could last 1-4 days. This process facilitates easy detachment of grains from spikelet’s. Top of page Threshing The grains are removed from cured ear heads by hand threshing, bullock / bamboo threshing or by machine threshing The ragi straw with grains are spread out on the road and vehicles trampling them. This is the classic method of loosening of grains in our country Manual threshing is done by either treading, beating the ear heads, threshing board or rack or beating the ear heads by wooden logs or bamboo sticks for detachment of grains. After this process, most of the grains would have settled down towards the bottom of the pile and the chaff at the top. Pedal operated thresher consists of a rotating drum with wire loops which strip the grains from the ear heads when fed by hand. It can be operated by women and can be used in hilly or terraced areas because of its portability. The dried ear heads are rubbed in between the hands and the grains are easily detached from the ear heads by engaging women labourers. Mechanical threshing is done by using SBI thresher or multi crop threshers. In this, whole ragi stalks are fed into the machine and a major portion of the grain is threshed by the impact of the bars or spikes of the cylinder. The initial impact also accerlates the straw and further threshing is accomplished as the moving particles hit the bar and the concave. Top of page Winnowing Winnowing of Ragi involves the separation of undesirable foreign matter or materials other than grain and leaving a cleaned paddy for storage and processing. Depending on the production management, harvesting, threshing and handling methods used, the field-processed Ragi may contain various other crop and weed seeds, straw, chaff, panicle stems, as well as empty, immature and damaged grains. The chaff is separated by engaging women labourers and the grain is dropped through a crosswind to remove the light impurities. Winnowing is also done by using grain winnower. This machine winnows and cleans the Ragi after threshing. It consists of a feed hopper to hold the grain for cleaning. It discharges the grain over a scalper and removes bigger size impurities. A blower provided at the bottom passes air against the grain falling through the scalper which separates the straw, chaff and other impurities. The dust, chaff and straw are collected separately and cleaned paddy is taken out through another outlet near the bottom of the unit. The clean and pure grains are stored in gunny bags or containers after the winnowing process. Top of page Grading The importance of seed size grading is improving physical and physiological quality of seeds It helps to ensure that producers get paid maximum value for their grain according to the quality of the grain. It helps us attract and keep customers who buy our grain for its consistent quality. Pre cleaned Ragi seeds are size graded by passing the grains to British Standard Sieve -BSS 10 x 10 (aperture width 2.4mm) as scalper and BSS 12 x 12 (aperture width 2.0 mm) as grader, processing loss will be 10 to 15%. Graded seeds are stored in tightly closed containers or gunny bags Top of page Storage of Ragi seeds Ragi seeds/grains possess excellent storage properties and is said to improve in quantity with storage. Seed can be stored without damage for as long as 50 years. They are highly valued as a reserve food in times of famine. Seed retains viability and vigour better than any other cereal crop with marginal storage facilities in hot humid areas. On less humid places use fresh gada cloth for short term storage. For long term storage, in humid places 700 gauge ploythene bag may be used and also Ragi grains are stored in metallic tins, earthen grain bins, and gunny bags. Underground pits called hagevu in Karnataka, India were bottle shaped excavations used to store ragi. Ragi seeds resist insect and fungal attacks. Protection from storage pests Grain purpose Dry the seeds adequately to reduce the moisture level to 10% Seed purpose Mix one kg of Activated kaolin or Malathion 5% D for every 100 kg of seed. Pack in gunny or polythene lined gunny bags for storage. (Note: Bold and diseases free earheads are collected during the first picking. They are dried and carefully threshed with hand. Either earheads as such or grains are kept for seed purposes) Top of page Milling Ragi seed is a challenge to mill because it is very small and because its seed coat is bound tightly to the edible part (endosperm) inside. Moreover, the grain is so soft and friable that conventional milling equipment cannot remove the outside without crushing the inside. However, farmers have long known that moistening finger Ragi (for about 30 minutes) toughens the bran and reduces its grip enough that it can be mechanically separated without crushing the rest. Ragi can be milled by wet conditioning. It can be steamed followed by milling in a hammer or plate mill or a roller flour mill. Click here to view the Milling Procedure Flow Chart Click Here to view the process for preparing Decorticated Millet Flow Chart Mechanical Milling Mechanical milling is of course well known for wheat, rice, and maize, it is a major industry. But for Ragi, this primary step in the commercial processing of a food grain is essentially unknown. Machinery for rubbing the bran (embryo) off ragi has never been available, perhaps through a lack of interest but mainly because the grain is exceptionally difficult to mill by machine. Ragi is usually eaten as whole-grain flour, and the presence of oil in the embryo means that its shelf life is short and its commercial use limited. A machine for doing milling has now been developed in India. This so-called "mini millet mill" consists of a water mixer, a plate grinder, and various sifter attachments. It is a versatile device in which debranning and sizing the endosperm (into either flour or semolina) take place in a single operation. It yields fairly white products. It can also be used to process wheat, maize, sorghum, and pearl millet and will even remove the outer husk from finger millet seeds if the clearance between the grinder plates is reduced. Top of page Malting Compared to other millets, Ragi is most suitable from the stand point of product quality and enzyme release for malting. The malted Ragi flour can be used along with germinated green gram flour to formulate a high calorie dense weaning food having excellent nutritional qualities. Ragi flour can be used with milk beverages. Parboiling of Ragi help in the quality of Ragi dumpling by eliminating its slimy texture. Flour from puffed Ragi has good flavour and can be used in snacks and supplementary foods in South India Ragi is used as gruel, dumpling, roti, dosa or porridge. Top of page Value Added Products Nutrition Uses Products Nutrition The nutritive value of ragi is better than that of rice and other cereals. Ragi is especially valuable as it contains the amino acid methionine, which is lacking in the diets of hundreds of millions of the poor who live on starchy staples such as cassava, plantain, polished rice, or maize meal. Ragi grain is rich in calcium, phosphorus and iron, the calcium content is higher than in the common cereals and millets. The major proteins of ragi are prolamins and gluteins and they appear to be adequate in all the essential amino acids. Germinated finger millet is used to make weaning foods for infants. Nutrition value of ragi grain per 100 g Composition Grams Protein 7.30 Fat 1.30 Carbohydrate 72.00 Minerals 2.70 Calcium 3.44 Phosphorus 2.83 Crude fiber 3.66 Ash 2.60 Moisture 13.2 Energy 328 (Kcal) Iron 4 mg B Carotene 4 (microgram/100g) Top of page Uses Ragi is richest source of calcium and iron among other cereals. Therefore, this can be given as ideal food supplement to growing children and aged people who need calcium supplement. Porridge: The small grains—which are usually brown but occasionally white—are commonly boiled into a thick porridge. Bread: Some finger millet is ground into flour and used for bread and various other baked products. All are relished for their flavor and aroma. Malt: Malted finger millet (the sprouted seeds) is produced as a food in a few places. It is nutritious, easily digested, and is recommended particularly for infants and the elderly. Beverages: Much finger millet in Africa is used to make beer. Its amylase enzymes readily convert starch to sugar. Indeed, finger millet has much more of this "saccharifying" power than does sorghum or maize; only barley, the world's premier beer grain, surpasses it. Fodder: Finger millet straw makes good fodder—better than that from pearl millet, wheat, or sorghum. It contains up to 61 percent total digestible nutrients. Popped Products: Finger millet can be popped. It is widely enjoyed in this tasty form in India. The leaf juice has been given to women in childbirth. Ragi is a folk remedy for leprosy, liver disease, measles, pleurisy, pneumonia, and small pox. Weight conscious individuals can use it. By eating ragi preparations, the constant desire to eat will be limited, reducing the daily calorie intake. Top of page Products Extruded products Ready to use products Delicacies Sweets and Savouries Health Drinks Top of page Extruded Products Ragi Noodles Ragi Vermicelli Ragi Idiyappam Top of page Ready to Use Products Ragi Beverage Mix Ragi Nutri Mix Top of page Delicacies Ragi Puttu Ragi Mudde Ragi Idli Ragi Dosa Ragi Kudumulu Ragi Rotti Ragi Adai Top of page Sweets and Savouries Ragi Halwa Ragi Pakora Ragi Biscuit Ragi Murukku Ragi Vada Ragi Popcorn Top of page Health Drinks Ragi Malt Ragi Sprouts Porridge Ragi Soup Ragi Morekoozlu Top of page Extruded Products Ragi Noodles Extrusion cooking because of its low cost and continuous processing capability has been accepted as one of the most useful technologies during the recent years in the field of food processing. Ingredients Refined wheat flour – 70 g Ragi – 30g Water – 30 ml Salt – 2g Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ragi Vermicelli Ingredients Refined wheat flour – 30 g Whole wheat flour – 40g Ragi – 30g Water – 30 ml Salt – 2g Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ragi Idiyappam Ingredients Rice flour – 80 g Ragi – 30g Water – 30 ml Salt – 2g Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ready to Use Products Beverage Mix Ingredients Ragi Flour Skimmed Milk Powder Jaggery Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Nutri Mix Ingredients Ragi Banana and Potato Powder Curry Leaves Cashew Nuts Sesame seeds Cardamom Milk Powder Sugar Powder Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Delicacies Ragi Puttu Ragi flour – 2 cups Sugar – ½ cup (quantity can be varied as per choice) Coconut – ½ shell Black Sesame seeds – 1 table spoon Cardamom – 4 no Sesame oil/ghee – 2 tea spoon Salt – pinch Method Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ragi Mudde Ragi mudde is a food item unique to the state of Karnataka, India. It is mainly popular with the rural folk of Karnataka. Method of preparation I Click here to view the Flow Chart Method of preparation II Ingredients 1 cup of ragi flour Fistful of rice 1/4 teaspoon of salt 4 cups of water 1 teaspoon of ghee Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ragi Idli Ingredients Whole Ragi Grain- 1 cup Idli rice (parboiled) – 1 cup Whole skinned Urad dal – ¾ cup Fenugreek (Methi) seeds -1 tablespoon Salt to taste Oil- to grease idli moulds Method of preparation Step1: Washes at least 2 to5 times and soak the ragi for 3-4 hours longer than you soak the rice. Step 2: Soak rice, whole urad and fenugreek seeds in separate containers for 4-6 hours or overnight. Step 3: In a wet grinder or a mixie /blender, grind the urad dal till light and fluffy. A test for fluffiness is to keep a bowl of water and drop a tiny pinch of batter. If it floats, it is light enough. Step 4: Then add and grind the Ragi grains and Methi and finally the rice. Take care that the rice should not be ground too smooth. It should be of rice rava consistency. Alternatively, you can use rice rava instead. Step 5: Take the batter in a vessel, fold in some salt to taste and leave it to ferment. Next morning, lightly stir the well-fermented batter. Grease Idli moulds and steam in a pressure Top of page Ragi Dosa Kezhvaragu (in Tamil) or Ragi Dosa is a preparation from Kongunadu’s cuisine. Describing Kongunadu is difficult but you can vaguely think of it as the stretch from Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Pollachi to Erode, Salem and Dharmapuri. Ingredients Ragi flour – 2 cups Grated Coconut – 1 cup Salt – 1 tsp Fresh Coriander – 3 twigs Curry Leaves – 4 Green Chilly – 1 no. Jeera / Cumin – 1tsp Oil – 1 tbsp Water – 4 1/2 cups (approximately, this will vary with how much water the flour soaks) Method of preparation Step 1: Soak Ragi flour in some warm water for 15 to 20 minutes Step 2: Grind the coconut, Green chilly, Coriander, Curry leaves, Jeera and Salt in a blender Step 3: Add this to the soaked Ragi flour and mix well. Add water to bring to Rava dosa batter consistency. [Note: This will be somewhere between butter milk and dosa batter or fresh cream consistency] Step 4: Dust a broad skillet or tawa with 1/2 tsp oil and heat it for 30 seconds. On a high flame pour the batter from outside towards inside to form a round. Cook on a high flame. Turn and cook the other side on a high flame. Reduce flame to low and turn and cook for a minute. Take out dosa on to serving plate. Step 5: Repeat for remaining batter Top of page Ragi Kudumulu With Garlic Ghee Ragi kudumulu is an old classic from Andhra Pradesh, India. Dumplings like kudumulu are prepared with ragi flour and steam-cooked in flavorful kura (curry). The main ingredient of kura in which ragi kudumulu are steamed changes with the seasons. Sometimes the kura is prepared with vegetables, sometimes with meat or a combination. Depends on the cook’s mood and the market prices. Popular in agricultural community, this protein powerhouse is a build or nourishes the muscle-on-the-bone kind of one-pot meal. Recipe: Recipe is prepared in three steps. Prepare Ragi dough for Kudumulu. Prepare kura (curry or kurma) for Kudumulu. Prepare kudumulu and steam-cook Step 1: Take one-cup ragi flour in a bowl. Add a tablespoon of garlic-ghee puree and quarter teaspoon salt. Stir in a tablespoon of garlic infused ghee. Sprinkling few tablespoons of hot water, make soft dough. Cover and keep it aside for about 15 to 30 minutes. The dough firms up on resting. Step 2: While the ragi dough is resting, prepare kura for ragi kudumulu. It can be with vegetables (Traditional choice: Indian broad beans, silk squash and ridge gourd). 2 ridge gourds: peel, rinse and cut into ½ inch, big pieces 2 tomatoes and one onion - finely chop to small pieces [Note: Kudumulu can be prepared with either vegetable, or meat (chicken or mutton). Heat a tablespoon of garlic infused ghee in a wide, deep-bottomed skillet. Add and toast a pinch each - cumin and mustard seeds. When seeds start to pop, add the onion. Then tomatoes. Add about a cup of water and cook the tomatoes to mush on high heat. While tomatoes are cooking, prepare the kura masala: For kura masala: Two tablespoons of grated coconut, 4 green chillies and an inch of peeled ginger, two cloves, one inch cinnamon, a teaspoon each - coriander seeds and cumin. Take them all in a mixer. Add a pinch of salt. Blend to fine consistency. Tomatoes will be cooked to soft by now. Mush them by pressing with a sturdy spoon. Add the ridge gourd pieces and the masala paste to the skillet. Also, half teaspoon each- turmeric and salt. Stir in another cup of water. Close the lid and simmer on medium-low heat. Step 3: While kura is cooking, quickly prepare Ragi kudumulu. Take the ragi dough out onto a plate. Knead and divide into small, about key lime-sized rounds. Take a round on your palm, and close the fingers around the round to make a fist. The shape changes to cylindrical with conical ends. Compared to the round shape, the kudumu shape will have more surface area exposed, and that would facilitate thorough steaming. Prepare all rounds in this way. You have to make them fast in two to three minutes. Place them one after another neatly in simmering kura. Close the lid tightly, and steam for about 15 to 20 minutes on medium-low heat. Ragi kudumulu have to be cooked properly inside. To test, take one out and cut into half. A well-steamed one has the color of red soil. (On taste, they should have the comforting texture of a well-chewed bubblegum). Sticky with unique ragi flavor. The size/volume also increases on steaming. Garnish with fresh coriander leaves and lime juice. Serve hot. Until serving time, cover the skillet with tight lid and keep the kura hot on low heat. Place four ragi kudumulu in a wide bowl or plate along with vegetable or meat pieces. Pour the tomato-masala gravy around. Top of page Ragi Rotti Ingredients Ragi flour (Finger millet flour) – one 8 oz cup Onion – ½ Green chili – 2 to 3 Garlic – 3 cloves Cumin seeds – 1 spoon Curry leaves – a sprig Coriander leaves – 3 sprigs Salt – to taste Water – ½ to ¾ cup Oil – to pour on the sides and tops of the rotti Method of preparation Finely chop Onion, Green chili, Garlic and Coriander leaves. Make a thick Ragi batter by adding water to the Ragi flour in a bowl. Add all the ingredients (Onion, Green chili, Garlic, Cumin seeds, Curry leaves, Coriander leaves and Salt) to the batter. Heat dosa pan. Season the dosa pan with little oil. Once the pan in hot enough, take a small amount of batter in your palm and pat them slowly and flatten them to make round shaped rottis. If it is difficult for you, place a handful of batter on dosa pan and spread it into round shape or any shape you like. Be careful while you spread the batter on the pan. Reduce heat if necessary. Leave oil around edges of the rotti. Once it is cooked on the down side and flip it to the other side. Cook well on both sides. Top of page Ragi Adai Ingredients Ragi flour – 2 cups Big onion – 1 Red chillies – 3 to 4 Jeera – 1 teaspoon Ground Nut – 2 tablespoon (Coarsely powder it) Mustard – 1 teaspoon Urad dhal – 1 teaspoon Asafotida – a pinch Oil for frying Salt – 1 teaspoon or as per taste Curry Leaves - few Method of preparation Put the ragi flour in a big bowl. Add salt, chopped onion, red chillies broken into small pieces, jeera, ground nuts (coarsely powdered) and mix well. In a kadai, put one teaspoon oil and when it is hot, add the mustard and when it pops up, add the urad dhal and fry till it turns golden brown. Add asafetida and curry leaves. Add this seasoning to the flour. Sprinkle water little by little and make a soft dough (should be thicker than adai batter and softer than chapatti dough). Heat a tawa and grease with oil. Keep the flame on medium. Take an orange size dough and put it on the tawa. Wet your fingers in water and gently press the dough and spread it round. Pour one teaspoon oil around the corners. Cook on medium flame till turns it colour. Turnover and cook other side also. Top of page Sweets And Savories Ragi Halwa or Ragi Manni Ingredients Ragi flour – 100g Powdered sugar – 100g Ghee – 100g Cardamom powder – 1 pinch Cashew nuts – 10g Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ragi Pakora (Finger Millet Friters) Ingredients Finger millet flour(Ragi) - 1 cup Onion - 1 Garlic - 3 cloves Cumin seeds - 1 spoon Red chili powder - 1/2 spoon Salt - to taste Oil - 1/2 to 1 cup(to deep fry) Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ragi Biscuit Ingredients 2 cups ragi flour 1 cup powdered sugar 1 cup butter 1/2 tea spn cardamom powder 1 tea spn baking powder Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ragi Murukku Ingredients Ragi flour - 1 cup Besan flour - 1 cup Rice flour - 1/4 cup Cumin seeds - 1 tspn Pepper powder, Chili powder and Salt - to taste Oil - to deep fry Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ragi Vada Ingredients Ragi flour : 2 cups Curry Leaves : 1 stick Onion : 1 big chopped fine Red chillies : 3 Ginger : 1 inch piece Cumin seeds : 1 tsp Peanuts : ½ cup Oil : to fry Salt : to taste Chilli Flakes : to taste Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ragi Eggless Cake This sweet is to increase the nutritive value of the goodies we make. The Ragi cake was moist and delicious. Ingredients 1 cup of refined flour 1/2 cup of Ragi flour 1/2 cup of sugar 1 tsp. Baking powder 1/2 tsp of Baking soda 5 tsp. of thick curds or Yogurt 1/4 cup of oil A pinch of salt 1 tsp. of Cinnamon powder 3-4 tsp. of Chocolate syrup A few nuts of your choice Method of preparation Step 1: Sift the two flours and add baking powder, baking soda, salt and cinnamon in it. Take another vessel and add sugar and oil in it. Whisk it till the sugar is dissolved. Step 2: Pour the curd and the chocolate syrup into it and mix it lightly. Add a few nuts of your choice. Step 3: Add this liquid mixture to the dry ingredients and gently stir it with light hands for 7-8 times. Pour the batter into the baking tin. Sprinkle a little of granulated sugar over the batter. Step 4: Grease a baking tin, by using the Jelly mold for this cake. Preheat the oven to 180°C for 10 minutes keeping the baking vessel inside the oven.Take out the hot vessel from the oven carefully and pour the prepared cake batter into it. Step 5: Bake the Ragi cake for 30 minutes at 180°C . Remove from the oven and check the baked cake by inserting a knife or tooth pick into it. If it comes clean than the cake is baked. Keep the cake out for 10-15 minutes to cool down before slicing it. Top of page Ragi Laddu Ingredients 1 cup Ragi Flour. 1/2 cup melted ghee. 1/2 tspn cardamon powder. 3 tbspn milk/cream. 1 cup powdered sugar Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Health Drinks Ragi Malt Ragi malt is popular as poor man’s or farmers health drink because of ready availability, low prices for the grain and nutritious, filling quality. Recipe: for two cups 1 tablespoon of ragi flour 1 glass of water or milk 2 tsp of sugar or powdered jaggery 1/2 tsp of powdered cardamom Method of preparation Step1: Take the ragi flour in a cup. Add half glass water slowly. Combine to smooth, lump free paste. Do not add the flour directly to boiling water, it will clump into lumps Step 2: Take one glass of water or milk in a vessel. Preparing this drink with milk alone is too rich, so add few drops of milk to water Step 3: Heat till the water reaches boiling stage. Then add the dissolved ragi flour solution slowly to the boiling water (milk), continuously stirring with a spoon. This will prevent the formation of lumps. If you add the flour mix to water before the boiling stage, the flour will separate and it won’t be suitable to drinking. You have to throw it away, so wait for water (milk) to start boiling, and then add the flour mix. This step is very important in preparing the good ragi malt Step 4: Add sugar or jaggery per your taste and pinch of cardamom (Elachi) powder. Step 5: Reduce the heat to medium level, and simmer the ragi malt for 5 minutes, stirring in-between. Turn off the heat.Let it cool to warm, and then pour into a glass or cup Top of page Ragi Sprouts Porridge Ragi Sprouts Porridge is also an diet food and highly nutritious meal for babies. Ingredients Ragi – 1 cup Wheat grains – 1 cup Green moong dal – 1 cup Almonds – 2 to 3 Pinch of green cardamom powder Metho of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ragi Soup (Kezhvaragu Kanki) Ingredients Ragi flour - 2 spoons Water - 2 cups Curd - 1/2 cup Salt - to tast Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow Chart Top of page Ragi Morekozh Ingredients Ragi maavu ( finger millet flour) - 100gm Moremilagai - 2 Sour buttermilk - 200 ml Mustard - 1/2 tsp Salt - as required Oil - as needed Method of preparation Click here to view the Flow chart Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Marketing Regulated Markets Market Information Sources Related Web Links Marketing Channels Export Regulated Markets Regulated markets ensurereasonable gain to the farmers by creating environment in markets for fair play of supply and demand forces, to regulate market practices and attain transparency in transactions and providing proper method of sale, correct weighing, prompt payment and various marketing related services. For controlling the activities of the marketing, Market Committee is there. The Committee consists of representatives of the farmers, commission agents and the Government nominees. Separate market committees are there for Tamil Nadu and Karnataka states. State-Wise Tamil Nadu Karnataka Pondicherry Top of page Regulated Markets - Tamil Nadu S.No District Market committee/ Regulated markets Address Phone No 1 Kanchipuram Market Committee Kanchipuram Market Committee 42B, Vadihya Road, Kanchipuram - 831 502. 044 - 27222811 Acharapakkam 2/134, GST Road, Acharapakkam - 603 301. 04115 - 222203 2 Cuddalore Market Committee Cuddalore Muthunagar Chidambaram Road, Cuddalore Harbour 607 003. 04142 - 2338072 Thittakudi Thozhuthoor Road, Thittakudi. 04143 - 285352 Chidambaram Uzhavar Sandal Complex, Chidambaram 608 001. 04144 - 230677 Kurinchipadi Chidambaram Road, Kurinchipadi 607 302. 04142 - 2358371 Senthiathoppu Kilangadu Road, Senthaiathoppu 638 702. 04142 - 2358371 Sri Mushnam Andimadam Road, Sri Mushnam 608 003 - Bhuvanagiri Sandai thoppu Road, Bhuvanagiri 608 601. - 3 Villupuram Market Committee Thirukoilur Villupuram Main Road, Aragandanallur, Thirukovilur 606 752 04153 - 224223 Ulundurpettai Trichy High Road, Ulundurpet 606 107. 04149 - 222231 Thiruvennainallur Near Bus Stand, Thiruvennainallur 607 203. 04153 - 234237 Vikkiravandi Main Road, Vikkiravandi 605 652. 04146 - 233373 4 Vellore Market Committee Vellore (millets) Officers Line, Tollgate, Vellore 632 001. 0416 - 220083 5 Dharmapuri Market Committee Krishnagiri Hamsa Hussain Sahib Street, Krishnagiri 635 903 04342 - 222219 Hosur Taluk Office, Hosur 635 125 - Rayakottai Hosur Main Road, Rayakottai 636 810 - Thenkanikottai Royakottai Road, Thenkanikottai 635 107 - 6 Erode Market Committee Dharapuram 347, Chinnakadai Street, Dharapuram 638 656 04258 – 220323 7 Trichy Market Committee Irumbudipatti (Millets) Ayyarmalai Post, Irumbudipattu – 639 194 - Source: www.indg.in/agriculture/List_of_Regulated_Markets_Tn.pdf Top of page Regulated Markets - Karnataka S.No District Market committee/ Regulated markets Address Phone No 1 Bangalore (Rural) Kudur Gram Panchayat, Kudur - Magadi Gram Panchayat, Magadi - Doddaballapur APMC, Doddaballapur 22114 Nelamangala Gram Panchayat, Nelamangala - 2 Bangalore (Urban) Chandapur Gran Panchayat, Chandapur - Jigani Gram Panchayat, Jigani - Byatarayanapura Gram Panchayat, Byatarayanapura - 3 Chamaraja Nagar Chamaraja nagar Secretary, A.P.M.C., Chamarajanagar 08226 - 22103 4 Chikkamagalur Kadur Secretary, A.P.M.C., Kadur 08267- 21252 Mudigare Secretary, A.P.M.C., Mudigare 08263- 20162 Tarikere Secretary, A.P.M.C., Tarikere 08261- 22221 5 Devangere Channagiri APMC. Channagiri 28038 Harapanahalli APMC., Kottur Road, Harapanahalli 20440 Honnali APMC., Nyamathi Road, Honnali 21014 6 Hassan Hassan A.P.M.C., Hassan 08172- 56186 Holenarasipura A.P.M.C., Holenarasipura 08175- 73461 7 Kolar Bangarpet APMC, Bangarpet- 563114 55291 Bethmangala APMC, Sub Market, Bathamangola Hobli, Bangarpet - Bagepalli APMC, Sub Market, Bagepalli, Kolar Dt - 8 Koppal Gangavati Secretary, APMC, Sri Channabasawaswamy, Gunj, Gangavati, Dist. Koppal-583227 70265 70369 9 Mandya Maddur A.P.M.C., Maddur 08232- 32349 Nagamangala A.P.M.C., Nagamangala 08234- 86767 10 Mysore Pitiyapatna A.P.M.C., Pitiyapatna 08223- 74447 11 Shimoga Shikaripura APMC., Shikaripura 62261 Shiralakoppa APMC Sub Market, Shiralakoppa, Shikaripura Taluk - 12 Tumkur Chikkanayakanahalli APMC, Chikkanayakanahalli 27251 Chelur APMC, Sub Market, Chelur, Gubbi Taluk - Gubbi APMC, Gubbi, Tumkur District 22250 Huliyar APMC, Huliyar, Chikkanayakanahalliu Taluk 56042 Source: Directory of Wholesale Agricultural Produce Assembling Markets in India, Government of India Top of page Regulated Markets - Pondicherry S.No District Market committee/ Regulated markets Address Phone No 1 Pondicherry Madagadipet (Millets) The Secretary, Pondicherry Market Committee, Agriculture Complex, Thattanchavady, Pondicherry-9 641148 Kanniakiol The Secretary, Pondicherry Market Committee, Agriculture Complex, Thattanchavady, Pondicherry-9 611020 Source: Directory of Wholesale Agricultural Produce Assembling Markets in India, Government of India Top of page Market Information Sources i.Directorate of Marketing and Inspection (DMI) Services Promotion of Standardisation and Grading of agricultural and allied produce Market Research, Surveys and Planning Argicultural Marketing Reforms Agricultural Marketing Information Nectwork Promotion of Cold Storage Construction of Rural Godowns Development of Marketing Infrastructure, Grading and Standardization Training in Agricultural Marketing Marketing Extension Contact details Directorate of Marketing and Inspection (DMI) Department of Agriculture and Cooperation Ministry of Agriculture Faridabad www.agmarknet.nic.in Top of page ii.Food Corporation of India (FCI) Services To provide the farmers remunerative prices To make foodgrains available at reasonable prices, particularly to the vulnerable sections of society To maintain buffer stocks as a measure of Food Security To intervene in the market for price stablilisation Operations of FCI Procurement of foodgrains Storage and Contract Movement Finances Sales Stocks Quality Control Engineering Export and Import Contact details Food Corporation of India 16-20, Barakhamba Lane, New-Delhi-110001, India Phone: 011-43527462 http://fciweb.nic.in/ Top of page iii.Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC) Services Warehousing activities of CWC include foodgrain warehouses, industrial warehousing, custom bonded warehouses, container freight stations, inland clearance depots and aircargo complexes. Apart from storage and handling, CWC also offers services in the area of clearing & forwarding, handling & transporation, procurement & distribution, disinfestation services, fumigation services and other ancillary activities. CWC also offers consultancy services/ training for the construction of warehousing infrastructure to different agencies. Scientific Storage Facilities for more than 200 commodities including hygroscopic and perishable items through network of 482 warehouses in India with its 5,704 trained personnel. Import and Export Warehousing facilities at its 36 Container Freight Stations in ports and inland stations. Bonded Warehousing facilities . Disinfestation services. Handling, Transportation & Storage of ISO Containers. Contact details Central Warehousing Corporation 4/1 Siri Institutional Area Opp. Siri Fort New Delhi-110016 http://cewacor.nic.in Top of page iv.Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) Services To promote the production and development of certain agricultural and food products for export. The Authority provides financial assistance under various schemes to the exporters registered with it. Development of scheduled agriculture products related industries for export. Provides financial assistance to these industries for conducting surveys, sensibility studies, relief and subsidy schemes. Registration of exporters for scheduled products. Adapting standards and specifications for the purpose of export of scheduled products. Carrying out inspection of meat and meat products for ensuring the quality of such products. Improving the packaging of the scheduled products. Promotion of export oriented production and development Contact details Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) NCUI Building, 3, Siri Institutional Area August Kranti Marg, New Delhi 110 016 Phone: (011) 26513204/26513219/2651472/2653 4186 www.apeda.com Top of page v.National Co-operative Development Corporation (NCDC) Services Establishment of new processing units. Expansion/modernisation/rehabilitation/diversification of existing units Strengthening of share capital base Margin money/working capital to commodity cooperative and State-level Commodity Federations for expansion of their business activities Providing financial assistance towards setting-up of agro-based processing units for plantation crops (Tea, Coffee, Rubber, Cashew, Arecanut, Spices etc.), food grain processing (rice/dal mills, bakery, roller flour mills, maize starch/ glucose plants etc.),oilseed processing units and various other processing units. (particle based, paper board projects, etc.) Contact details National Co-operative Development Corporation 4, Siri Institutional Area, Hauz Khas, NEW DELHI - 110016 Phone: 011-26962478, 26960796, 26962379, 26569246 FAX: 0111-26962370, 26516032 http://www.ncdc.in/ Top of page vi.National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd.(NAFED) National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd.(NAFED) was established on the auspicious day of Gandhi Jayanti on 2nd October 1958. Nafed is registered under the Multi State Co-operative Societies Act. Nafed was setup with the object to promote Co-operative marketing of Agricultural Produce to benefit the farmers. Agricultural farmers are the main members of Nafed, who have the authority to say in the form of members of the General Body in the working of Nafed. Activities Central nodal agency of Government of India for procurement of pulses, millets and oilseeds under price support scheme. It undertakes sale of pulses and oilseeds procured under PSS and import. Provide storage facilities. Consumer Marketing Division of NAFED serves the consumers in Delhi through the network of its retail outlets (NAFED BAZAR) by providing consumer items of daily need. Processing of pulses, fruits, etc for internal trade. Contact Details National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Fedration Of India Ltd. (NAFED) NAFEDHouse, SiddharthaEnclave RingRoad,AshramChowk, New Delhi-110014 Telephone EPABX : 011-26340019, 26341810 http://www.nafed-india.com Top of page vii.Director General of Foreign Trade, (DGFT) Services To implement the Exim Policy or Foreign Trade Policy of India by introducing various schemes and guidelines through its network ofdgft regional offices thought-out the country. To Grant Exporter Importer Code Number to Indian Exporter and Importers. IEC Number is a unique 10 digit code required by the traders or manufacturers for the purpose of import and export in India. DGFT permits or regulate Transit of Goods from India or to countries adjacent to India in accordance with the bilateral treaties between India and other countries. To promote trade with neighboring countries. To grant the permission of free export in Export Policy Schedule 2 . DGFT also play an important role in controlling DEPB Rates . Setting standard input-output norms is also controlled by the DGFT. Any changes or formulation or addition of new codes in ITC-HS Codes are also carried out by DGFT (Directorate General of Foreign Trade). Apart from the above, DGFT also acts as a trade facilitator. It also deals with the quality complaints of the foreign buyers. Officials DGFT works in close coordination with other related economic offices like Customs Commissionerates, Central Excise authorities, DRI authorities and Enforcement Directorate. Contact details Director General of Foreign Trade, (DGFT) Udyog Bhavan, New Delhi. http://dgft.delhi.nic.in/ Top of page viii.Director General of Commercial Intelligence & Statistics (DGCIS) Services It is the pioneer official organization for collection, compilation and dissemination of marketing related data i.e. export-import data, inter-state movement of foodgrains etc. For over one hundred and forty years this Directorate is serving the nation relentlessly as the principle authority on trade related information in India. The quality of information both in terms of authenticity and timeliness has made this organisation a veritable trade intelligence warehouse not only in India, but also across the globe. Contact details Directorate General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics, 1, Council House Street, Kolkata-700 001, India http://www.dgciskol.nic.in/ Top of page ix.Directorate of Economics and Statistics Services Collection and compilation of field data on cost of cultivation and cost of production in respect of 28 crops; Generation of estimates of cost of cultivation and cost of production of various crops in different States covered under the scheme ;and Construction of the indices of terms of trade between agriculture and non-agriculture sectors. Dissemination of market intelligence through publication and internet. Contact details Directorate of Economics and Statistics Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi http://www.dacnet.nic.in Top of page x.Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Services The state governments, in order to facilitate farmers to sell their produce and get reasonable price constituted APMC in many towns. Most of the APMC have market yard where traders and other marketing agents are provided godowns and shops for purchase of agriculture produce from farmers. Farmers can sell their produce to agents or traders under supervision of APMC. Arranges training, tours, exhibitions etc. Contact details Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee(APMC), Shastri Bhavan, New Delhi Top of page xi.State Agricultural Marketing Boards Services Grading and standardisation of agricultural produce. General improvement of the regulation of marketing in the state Giving aid to financially weak (or needy) market committees in the form of loans and grants. Propaganda and Publicity on matters relating to regulated marketing of agricultural produce. Imparting education in regulated marketing of agricultural produce. General improvement of the facilities for the transport of notified agricultural Produce and the marketing thereof. Training the officers and staff of MCs in the state. Advise on matters referred to it by the State Government; To co-ordinate functioning of all the market committees with the help of information service obtained by both National and International market. To arrange for safety insurance on the life of farmers and if necessary contribute towards premium payable in respect of all agriculturists in the state. To arrange or organise seminars, workshops or exhibitions on subject relating to agricultural marketing. Top of page xii.Kisan Call Centers Services Provides expert advise to the farmers. These centers will operate through toll free telecom lines throughout the country. A country wide common four digit number 1551 has been allocated to these centers. Centers New Delhi , Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Hydrabad, Bangalore, Chandhigarh, Lucknow. Top of page Related Web Links S.No Particulars Website Address 1 District industries centre, Coimbatore http://www.diccoimbatore.com/functions.html 2. Tamilnadu industrial investment corporations http://www.tiic.org 3. Tamilnadu government http://www.tn.gov.in 4. Tamilnadu industrial development corporation http://www.tidco.com/goi.html 5. Industrial And Technical Consultancy Organization Of Tamilnadu Limited http://www.itcot.com 6. Tamilnadu Small Industries Development Corporation Limited http://www.sidco.tn.gov.in 7. Tamil Nadu Small Industries Corporation Ltd http://www.tansi.com 8. National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development http://www.nabard.org 9. Indian market data http://www.indiandata.com 10. Indian traders market http://www.trademart.in 11. Indian market http://www.dir.indiamart.com 12. Indian industries http://www.indianindustry.com 13. Indian traders http://www.tradeindia.com 14. Indian exporters http://www.exportersindia.com/ 15. Potentiality of district http://www.laghu-udyog.com 16. Agricultural rural industries in India http://www.ari.nic.in 17. Indian business http://www.business.mapsofindia.com 18. Agricultural marketing in India http://www.agmarknet.nic.in Top of page Marketing Channels Top of page Export Exporters 1.Manna Food Products Manufacturer and exporters of quality food products like idly, muruku, puttu, kanji powders & idiyappam, sprouted ragi, rice flours, etc. manna health mix for all ages. Manna Food Products 55, Y Block, 8Th Street, Anna Nagar, (Neariyyappan Temple) CHENNAI - 600040 (Tamil Nadu) India Phone(s) : +91-44-6283991 2.Saga Food Products Pvt. Ltd Manufacturers and exporters of manna's health products and food products. health products : -manna nutri mix - -manna ragi malt. flour products : -sprouted ragi flour -plain ragi flour - instant products : -manna ragi idiyappam -manna ragi sticks -manna instant idiyappam -manna instant puttu powder Saga Food Products Pvt. Ltd. AF - 2214, 7th Street, 11th Main Road, Anna Nagar Chennai - 600040 (Tamil Nadu) India Phone(s) : +91- 44 - 2628 3991/ 2628 6620 3.Dhaniyalakshmi Agro Foods Exporters of maize product, ragi flour, raggi flour food product Address: 563, Rangai Gowder Street Near Visyal street town Coimbatore Tamil Nadu Baskaran. Mbl: +91 9443035304 Phone: 091-422-2390134 4.Bhagyanagar Foods Exporters of Ragi and Soya Address: 16-10-1/2, MALAKPET, HYDERABAD - 500 023, INDIA Country : INDIA Phone: +(91)-(40)-30916417 5. Amrutha Food Products Exporters of Sprouted Ragi, Chocolate Vitarich Address: 72, 5TH STREET, V.N.R. NAGAR, VADAVALLI, COIMBATORE 641041 ,TAMIL NADU ,INDIA City : COIMBATORE Country :INDIA Phone: 91-422-2424928 6. Sri Balaji Agency Exporters of all kinds of maize, rice, ragi, jowar etc. Address: NO 116/47 , TRINETRA SADAN , KIRAWADI LAYOUT, K . B . EXTENSION, DAVANGERE - 577 022, INDIA Country : INDIA Phone: +(91)-(8192)-255555 Fax: +(91)-(8192)-255555 7. Simant Udyam Manufacturers and exporters of finger millet nutrients, ragi nutrients, body fitness supplements, dietary supplements, nutritional protein supplements, nutritional supplements under nachni satwa bran etc. Address: A/6, SUKHKARTA APPT., GANPATI MANDIRAJWAL, CHINCHWAD GAON, PUNE - 411033, INDIA Phone: +(91)-(20)-27453031 8. Raja Industries Engaged in manufacturing and exporting instant noodles, hakka noodles, rice flour, ragi flour and papad. Address: 5/1, 5TH CROSS, MYSORE ROAD, BANGALORE - 560 026, INDIA Country : INDIA Phone: +(91)-(80)-26753456 Fax: +(91)-(80)-26749595 9.Bardhan Foods Exporters of south indian food ready mixes, Idiappam powder, puttu podi, adai dosa mix, ragi dosa mix etc. Address: 37, PERUMAL WEST CAR STREET, TIRUNELVELI - 627 001, INDIA Country : INDIA Phone: +(91)-(462)-2339620 Fax: +(91)-(462)-2335312 10.Kamal Exim export indian origin cereals like sorghum, milky white(snow white) sorghum, maize, green millet, ragi, red finger millet, barley and other indian origin cereals Address kamal exim 13/2,azadnagar,wadala, mumbai, maharashtra India 400031 Tel : 91-22-6580-3970 Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Institutions & Schemes Institutions State Level Institutes National Institutes International Institutes Top of page State Level Institutes Tamil Nadu Karnataka Kerala Top of page Institutes - Tamil Nadu i. Millet Breeding Station, Coimbatore The Millet Breeding Station is located at a distance of two kilometers on the northern side of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University campus. It is the oldest research station in Tamil Nadu, started in the year 1923, situated at an elevation of 411.98 m and between 11oN latitude and 77oE longitude. The total area is about 69 ha having red and black soils with 8.5 pH. Varieties released so far – CO 13, CORH 14 Mandate Development of sorghum variety resistant to grain mold disease suitable for kharif season. Evolution of dual purpose early maturing variety/hybrid suitable for rainfed/ irrigated situation in pearl millet and sorghum. Development of high yielding dent type single cross hybrid/variety suitable for rainfed/ irrigated situation in maize. Development of small millets varieties suitable for hill tracts of Tamil Nadu. Evolution of wheat varieties suitable for plains of Tamil Nadu. Contact - The Professor and Head Dept of Millets Center for Plant Breeding and Genetics TNAU, Coimbatore – 641 003, Tamil Nadu, India. E-mail: millets@tnau.ac.in Top of page ii.Regional Research Station, Paiyur Established as Regional Research Station during 1973 at Dharmapuri district.It is Located on the NH-7 (Bangalore - Salem) 108 kms from Bangalore ; 29 kms from Dharmapuri Varieties released so far- Paiyur 1, Paiyur (Ra) 2 Mandate To serve as a lead centre for finger millet and horsegram Test verification centre for rice, sorghum, groundnut and other crops grown in the North Western Zone of Tamil Nadu To generate technologies for rainfed and irrigated farming practices To maintain an inventory of soils and their characteristics indicating the problem areas To survey the incidence of pests and diseases on major crops and to generate appropriate management techniques To serve as a centre for training of extension workers and farmers in production technology of millets and pulses To adopt few villages for Integrated Village Development Programme (IVDP) To publish and disseminate research findings and recommendations of the station To design and develop low cost farm implements for major crops Research Activities Crop Improvement Development of high yielding long duration ragi varieties with inbuilt resistance to blast. Maintenance and production of nucleus and breeder seeds of rice Paiyur-1, sorghum Paiyur-2, ragi Paiyur-1, samai Paiyur-2, cowpea Paiyur-1, horsegram Paiyur-1 and Paiyur-2 and niger Paiyur-1. Contact - The Professor and Head Regional Research Station Paiyur- 635 112 Dharmapuri District Phone : 04343 - 250043 e-mail : arspaiyur@tnau.ac.in Top of page iii.Myrada Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Erode Krishi Vigyan Kendra started at Erode district on 1991 Mandate On-Farm Testing (on farmers’ field) in Crop production, Horticulture, Live stock production, Fisheries etc., Front Line Demonstrations on oilseeds and pulses, cereal and vegetable crops, and other enterprises related to agriculture, and Organising vocational training programmes in Agriculture and allied enterprises In-service training of field level extension officials. Contact - Myrada Krishi Vigyan Kendra 57, Bharathi Street Gopichettipalayam - 638 452 Erode District Tamil Nadu Phone : 04285 - 226695 Fax : 044 -24360234 email : myradakvk@eth.net, myradakvk@dataone.in website : http://www.myradakvk.co.in Top of page iv.Dr. Perumal Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Krishnagiri Krishi Vigyan Kendra started at Krishnagiri district on 1994 Mandate To improve the technical literacy by imparting skill based vocational training to farmers, farm women, farm youth as well as in service training to field extension officials. Conducting on-farm testing for identifying technologies in terms of location specific sustainable land use system. Organising training to update the extension personnel with merging advances in agricultural research on regular basis. Organising short and long term vocational training courses in agriculture and allied vocations for the farmers and rural youths with emphasis on “learning by doing” for higher production on farms and generating self employment. Organising “front line demonstration” on various crops to generate production data and feedback information. Contact - Dr. Perumal Krishi Vigyan Kendra Elumichangiri Village Mallinayanapalli (Post) Krishnagiri - 635 120 Krishnagiri District Tamil Nadu Phone : 04343 - 268613 email :drperumalkvk@hotmail.com Top of page v.Sri Avinashilingam Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Coimbatore Krishi Vigyan Kendra Started at Coimbatore district on 1979 Mandate On-Farm Testing (on farmers’ field) in Crop production, Horticulture, Live stock production, Fisheries etc., Front Line Demonstrations on oilseeds and pulses, cereal and vegetable crops, and other enterprises related to agriculture, and Organising vocational training programmes in Agriculture and allied enterprises In-service training of field level extension officials. Contact - Sri Avinashilingam Krishi Vigyan Kendra Vivekanandapuram - 641 113 Seeliyur (via) Karamadai Block Coimbatore District Phone : 04254 - 284223 Fax : 044 -24360234 email : sakvkcbe@rediffmail.com website : http://avinashilingamkvk.org/ Top of page vi.Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Virinjipuram Krishi Vigyan Kendra started at Vellore district on 2004 Mandate On-Farm Testing (on farmers’ field) in Crop production, Horticulture, Live stock production, Fisheries etc., Front Line Demonstrations on oilseeds and pulses, cereal and vegetable crops, and other enterprises related to agriculture, and Organising vocational training programmes in Agriculture and allied enterprises In-service training of field level extension officials. Contact - Krishi Vigyan Kendra Virinjipuram - 632 104 Vellore District Tamil Nadu Phone : 0416 - 2272221 email : kvkvrinjipuram@tnau.ac.in Top of page Institutes - Karnataka i.University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore The research programmes of the University are mainly applied in nature for solving problems of farming community of particular location coupled with overall increase in agricultural production of the State. daptive research is also undertaken for developing and refinement of newly developed technology under farmers' field condition, validation and ensuring acceptance. The University has released several varieties / hybrids of different field as well as horticultural crops for the benefit of farming community. The promising crop varieties were Tanu, KHRS-21, MO-4 and KRH-2 hybrid in Paddy; GPU-28, 26 and 48 of Ragi; NAC-6002, NAC-6004 and NAH-2049 (hybrid) of Maize; Co 7804 and Co 86032 of Sugarcane; KBSH-1, 42 and 44 hybrids of Sunflower; Ullal1-4 of Cashew and TLB varieties of Tomato. The dry farming and watershed technologies, IPM and INM for different crops like paddy, ragi, redgram, sunflower, groundnut and sugarcane etc. and aerobic rice are very popular among the farmers. Contact - University of Agricultural Sciences Gandhi Krishi Vigyan Kendra Bangalore – 560 065 Karnataka Phone: 2333 0206 / 2333 0153 Ext. 215 Mobile: 94498 66903, Fax: 080-2333 0206 email: dr@uasbangalore.edu.in Top of page ii.Myrada, Bangalore Mandate On-Farm Testing (on farmers’ field) in Crop production, Horticulture, Live stock production, Fisheries etc., Front Line Demonstrations on oilseeds and pulses, cereal and vegetable crops, and other enterprises related to agriculture, and Organising vocational training programmes in Agriculture and allied enterprises In-service training of field level extension officials. Contact - Myrada 2-Service Road, Domlur Labour Bangalore – 560 071 Phone: (91) 08025352028, 25353166, Fax: (91) 080 25350982 E-mail: myrada@vsnl.com, Web: www.myrada.org Top of page iii.Zonal Agricultural Research Station, Mandya Zonal research station of the University of Agriculture, Bangalore is located in Mandya (V.C. Farm) with 600 acres of research farm. Research is carried on all major crops of the district viz., Rice, Ragi [important varieties are: Indaf-1, Indaf-2, Indaf-3, Indaf-5, Indaf-7, Indaf-8, Indaf-9, Indaf-11, Indaf-15 and MR-1], Sugarcane, Maize. The Research station has developed and released several high yielding, hybrids and productive packages which are popular not only in the district but also elsewhere in the State. Mandate Water management and production technology for sugarcane, rice, ragi and maize, hybrid rice, horticulture, inland fisheries / mixed farming. Research on banana and maize; paddy seed production; high value crops like vanilla, pepper as multistoried crops Research on rainfed vegetables like tomato, brinjal, chillies and potato, dryland horticulture Contact - Zonal Agricultural Research Station University of Agricultural Sciences (Bangalore) Nagamangala-571432 Mandya (Dist) Karnataka Phone: (08234)-86060 Top of page iv.Agricultural Research Station, Nagenahalli Agricultural research Station is located in Nagenahalli, Mysore district established in 1917. Area of the farm is 25.20 hectares. Mandate Water management and production technology for sugarcane, rice, ragi and maize, hybrid rice, horticulture, inland fisheries / mixed farming. Research on banana and maize; paddy seed production; high value crops like vanilla, pepper as multistoried crops Research on rainfed vegetables like tomato, brinjal, chillies and potato, dryland horticulture Contact - Agricultural Research Station Nagenahalli Mysore Phone: 0821- 2591267, 0821- 2591383 Top of page Institutes - Kerala i.Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur The Kerala Agricultural University is the primary and the principal instrumentality of the Kerala State in providing human resources, and skills and technology, required for the sustainable development of its agriculture, defined broadly encompassing all production activities based on land and water, including crop production (agriculture), animal husbandry, forestry and fishery through conducting, interfacing and integrating education, research and extension in these spheres of economic endeavour. Mandate Making provision for imparting education in different branches of study, particularly in agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry including veterinary and dairy science, co-operation, fisheries, forestry, agricultural engineering, home science and other allied branches of learning and scholarship; Furthering the advancement of leadership and prosecution of research, particularly in agriculture and allied sciences; Undertaking an extension education programme; and Such other purposes as the University may from time to time determine. Contact - Kerala Agrl. University, Vellanikkara, KAU P.O. 680 656, Thrissur, Kerala 91 487 2370432; Fax: 91 487 23700193 Top of page ii.KISSAN Operations Centre, Thiruvananthapuram Karshaka Information Systems Services And Networking (KISSAN) is an integrated, multi-modal delivery of agricultural information system, which provides several dynamic and useful information and advisory services for the farming community across Kerala. It is one of the leading citizen centric e-governance projects of the Department of Agriculture, Govt. of Kerala. The key feature of KISSAN is the integrated service delivery model that makes available to the experts from any agriculture related organization any mix or all of the above modes of communications to reach timely and effective assistance to farmers anywhere in the state. Contact - The Coordinator KISSAN- Kerala Project KISSAN Operations Centre IIITM-K, Project Wing, NILA, Techno park Campus Thiruvananthapuram – 695581 Kerala , India Tel: 91-471-2700965, 2700947, Fax : 91-471-2700947 E-mail :info@kissankerala.net web:http://www.kissankerala.net/ Top of page National Institutes i.Agricultural Research Station, Vizianagaram Agricultural Research Station was established in the year 1954 on the leased lands in Gajularega Panchayat adjacent to Vizianagaram town. The main research function of the research station is to develop and release of improved varieties in the predominant millet crops of the zone viz., ragi and bajra and also to develop improved production practices. Varieties released so far - Suraj (1994) (VR-520), Champavathi (1998) (VR-708). Area of adaptation is all over India Mandate To evolve high yielding varieties in finger millet & pearlmillet and to investigate into the manurial & cultural requirements of these crops under the major farming situations of their cultivation - under rain fed conditions To evolve high yielding varieties in finger millet suitable for irrigated conditions during late rabi season. To carry out testing and verification functions in respect of other important crops of the zone for recommending suitable varieties for rainfed conditions. Production and distribution of breeder’s and foundation seed of important finger millet and mesta varieties. To institute fresh research programme on the research gaps identified during zreac meetings on the important dry land crops of this zone. Breeding for blast resistant high yielding varieties of ragi (finger millet) suitable for different farming situations. Small millet germplas collection, evaluation and maintainance. ragi based inter cropping system with pulses (grain/vegetable). screening for diseases of small millets and management of ragi blast Contact Agricultural Research Station Vizianagaram Phone: 08922-225983 Top of page ii.Agricultural Research Station, Peddapuram The Agricultural Research Station, Peddapuram was established during 1954 by the Department of Agriculture, Government of Andhra Pradesh with an objective to isolate high yielding varieties suitable for the tract and to generate technology for remunerative cultivation of millets and pulses. Mandate 1. Development of Medium duration hybrids of Maize for North Coastal Andhra Pradesh. 2. Testing and verification function of Pulses, Millets, Oil Seeds, and Breeder Seed Production of Ragi Varieties. The Agricultural Research Station, Peddapuram is the lead station for the Breeder seed production of Ragi varieties viz., Godavari and Ratnagiri and are being produced on central, State and Seed agencies indents. Contact Agricultural research Station Peddapuram – 533437 East Godavari District Phone- 08858-241853 Top of page iii.Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan (VPKAS), Uttarakhand Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan (VPKAS), Almora, Uttarakhand, India, is a premier institute of Indian Council of Agricultural Research, engaged in hill agricultural research for North-Western Himalayan region of India. It is a multi-crop and multi-disciplinary institute. It has so far released 120 varieties of 25 crops. Vareities released so far: VL Mandua149 – Suitable for Uttarakhand hills and all millet growing areas except Tamil Nadu and AndhraPradesh VL Mandua 146 – Suitable for Uttarakhand hills and Karnataka Mandate Research on sustainable agricultural technology for North-Western Himalayas including crop improvement and resource & pest management Basic and strategic research on important hill crops including indigenous germplasm conservation Research on high value crops utilizing niche potential of hills Research on management of range and degraded lands in hills for forage production Socio-economic research recognizing the role of women in farm level enterprises Development of farming system models using traditional wisdom of farming community Transfer of technology programs, research on extension methodology, and organization of specialized training programs Contact Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan (VPKAS) Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Almora, Uttarakhand Phone- 91-5962-230060 Top of page iv.Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT), Bhubaneshwar Orissa University of Agriculture & Technology is at the heart of (Latitude : 20º 15'N, Longitude : 85º 52' E), the capital city of Orissa , which is situated at an altitude of 25.9 meters above the sea level. The University has made significant contribution in the areas of crop improvement/ crop production/ natural resource management/ crop protection/ post-harvest technology in agriculture and allied sectors like Veterinary/ Fishery and Forestry Sciences. Varieites released so far – BM 9-1, Chilika (OEB 10) – Area of Adaptability in Orissa, M.P., Gujarat, Karnatka, A.P. and T.N. Contact Orissa University of Agriculture & Technology Bhubaneswar-751003 Orissa, India Email:ouatmain@hotmail.com Fax: 91-674-2397780 Top of page v.Central Food Technological Research Institute, Mysore Central Food Technological Research Institute(CFTRI), Mysore (A constituent laboratory of Council of Scientific and Industrial research, New Delhi) came into existence during 1950 with the great vision of its founders, and a network of inspiring as well as dedicated scientists who had a fascination to pursue in-depth research and development in the areas of food science and technology. Technlogies available for Commercial Exploitation of ragi Bread: Production (Brown, plain, Sweet, Milk, Whole wheat, Fruit, High fiber, Ragi, Bajra Composite Ragi Rusk Ragi based biscuit Composite vermicelli based on ragi flour Decortication of Ragi Finger millet (Ragi) based murukku Flaking of ragi Ragi based papads Vermicelli noodles - Rice, Jowar, Ragi, Maize, Bajra, Navane & Samai Contact Mrs. Darly Thomas Head, Technology Transfer & Business Development CFTRI Mysore 570 020 Ph: +91-821-2514534 Fax: +91-821-2515453 E-mail: ttbd@cftri.res.in Top of page vi.National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, Pusa The National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources has its Headquarters at New Delhi, located at latitude of 28° 35’ N, longitude of 70° 18’ E and an altitude of 226 m above mean sea level. NBPGR functions under the administrative control of the Crop Science Division of the ICAR. The Bureau draws guidelines from the Crop Science Division of ICAR, Bureau’s Management Committee, Research Advisory Committee and Germplasm Advisory Committees. Mandate To act as nodal institute at national level for acquisition and management of indigenous and exotic plant genetic resources for food and agriculture, and to carry out related research and human resource development, for sustainable growth of agriculture. Objectives of NBPGR To plan, organize, conduct and coordinate exploration and collection of indigenous and exotic plant genetic resources. To undertake introduction, exchange and quarantine of plant genetic resources. To characterize, evaluate, document and conserve crop genetic resources and promote their use, in collaboration with othe national organizations. To develop information network on plant genetic resources. To conduct research, undertake teaching and training, develop guidelines and create public awareness on plant genetic resources. Contact National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources Pusa Campus, New Delhi - 110 012 Top of page International Institutes i.International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Hyderabad The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) is a non-profit, non-political organization that conducts agricultural research for development in Asia and sub-Saharan Africa with a wide array of partners throughout the world. Covering 6.5 million square kilometers of land in 55 countries, the semi-arid tropics has over 2 billion people, and 644 million of these are the poorest of the poor. ICRISAT is headquartered in Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India, with two regional hubs and four country offices in sub-Saharan Africa. It belongs to the Consortium of Centers supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). Mandate The mandate of ICRISAT research is to primarily produce International Public Goods that are relevant and can be used across regions of the world. This is interpreted often to mainly mean publishing scholarly papers in peer-reviewed journals. ICRISAT conducts its research under four themes: Agro-ecosystems development, Harnessing biotechnology(bioinformatics), Crop improvement and management, and Institutions, Markets, policy and Impacts Mandate Crops - Chickpea,Pigeon pea,Groundnut, Pearl millet, Sorghum and Finger millet Contact International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) Patancheru Hyderabad,Andhra Pradesh India. Top of page ii.CIAT (Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical) CIAT is an agricultural research institution. We focus on scientific solutions to hunger in the tropics. We believe eco-efficient agriculture developing sustainable methods of food production—is the best way to eradicate hunger and improve livelihoods in the region. Mission To reduce hunger and poverty, and improve human health in the tropics through research aimed at increasing the eco-efficiency of agriculture. Vision CIAT will engage its key scientific competencies to achieve significant impact on the livelihoods of the poor in the tropics. Interdisciplinary and applied research will be conducted through partnerships with national programs, civil society organizations, and the private sector to produce international public goods that are directly relevant to their users. These goods include improved germplasm, technologies, methodologies, and knowledge. Contact Km 17, Recta Cali-Palmira Apartado Aéreo 6713 Cali, Colombia Phone: +57 2 4450000 (direct) or +1 650 8336625 (via USA) Fax: +57 2 4450073 (direct) or +1 650 8336626 (via USA) E-mail:ciat@cgiar.org Web: www.ciat.cgiar.org Top of page Schemes Agricultural Schemes State Schemes Central Schemes Farm Mechnaisation Schemes Top of page Agricultural Schemes - State Schemes TamilNadu i.Seed Multiplication Scheme of Millets Welfare Scheme Components and its benefits Premium for the production of Certified class seeds Rs.2/- per Kg of seed Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits The required source seed will be supplied by the Department of Agriculture through the Agricultural Extension Centres on payment of the Cost of the seed as per the sale price fixed by the Department. Officer to be Contacted The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District Level Top of page ii.Seed Village Scheme a.Distribution of Foundation / Certified seeds of Millets Welfare Scheme Components and its benefits At 50% cost for the production of quality seeds by farmers Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits All the farmers in the State who are willing to produce quality seeds from their lands for their own use and for distribution to other farmers. Officer to be Contacted Assistant Agricultural officer at the Village Level Deputy Agricultural Officer / Agricultural Officer at the Block Level The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block Level The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District Level b.Three Days Training on seed production technology Welfare Scheme Components and its benefits Training in three important phases of the crops to farmers who receive seeds from the department @ 50% cost for production of quality Seeds. 50 farmers per training totally 8000 training per year. Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits All the farmers in the State who are willing to produce quality seeds from their lands for their own use and for distribution to other farmers. Officer to be Contacted Assistant Agricultural officer at the Village Level Deputy Agricultural Officer / Agricultural Officer at the Block Level The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block Level The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District Level C.Supply of Storage Bin to the farmers Welfare Scheme Components and its benefits Rs.3000/- for 20 qtl bin and Rs.1500/- for 10 qtl. bin (or) 33% cost of bin- For SC farmers Rs.2000/- for 20 qtl bin and Rs.1000/- for 10 qtl. bin (or) 25% cost of bin- For other farmers Officer to be Contacted Assistant Agricultural officer at the Village Level Deputy Agricultural Officer / Agricultural Officer at the Block Level The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block Level The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District Level Top of page iii.Tamil nadu Agricultural Modernization and Water Bodies Restoration Management ( IAMWARM ) Demonstrations Welfare Scheme Components and its benefits Ragi ( 1 ha ) 100% subsidy (or) Rs.2,500/- Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits All farmers through Water Users’ Association in the respective phase I (2007-08), Phase II (2008-09), Phase III (2009-10) are benefited under this scheme. Officer to be contacted District Joint Director of Agriculture Assistant Director of Agriculture at Block level Agricultural Officer / Dy. Agrl. Officer at Block level Top of page iv.Assistance to farmers for improving the soil health A.Distribution of Micro Nutrient Mixture Welfare Scheme Components and its benefits Supply of Micro Nutrient Mixtures for Millets Rs.38.00 per Kg. Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits All farmers in the state Officer to be Contacted Assistant Agricultural officer at the Village Level Deputy Agricultural Officer / Agricultural Officer at the Block Level The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block Level B. Distribution of Biofertilisers Welfare Scheme Components and its benefits Supply of Biofertilizers at full cost – Azospirillum, Rhizobium and Phosphobacteria each Rs.6/- per packet of 200 gms. Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits All farmers in the state Officer to be Contacted The Joint Director of Agriculture at the District Level C. Vermicomposting of Agricultural Waste Welfare Scheme Components and its benefits a.Organizing Demonstration and Training – Rs.1200/- is provided towards organizing a demonstration. Rs.50/- per farmer towards incidental charges for attending the training of 50 farmers in each batch. Eligibility and conditions for availing the benefits All farmers in the state except Chennai and The Nilgiris District. Officer to be Contacted Assistant Agricultural officer at the Village Level Deputy Agricultural Officer / Agricultural Officer at the Block Level The Assistant Director of Agriculture at the Block Level Top of page v.Crop Insurance Scheme Funding Pattern : 100% by State Government Description : Farmers in the State face production irsks on various counts, such as drought, floods, etc. A crop insurance farmers, covering 25 major crops gorwn in the state since 1995. The present scheme aims at revamping marginal farmers. Out lay of the scheme is Rs.100 lakhs Beneficiaries : Farmers, Family, Community, Other Eligibility : Any farmer How to Avail : By contacting the agriculture department and local self government institutions Top of page Karnataka i.Crop Insurance Scheme Funding Pattern : 100% by State Government Description : Farmers in the State face production irsks on various counts, such as drought, floods, etc. A crop insurance farmers, covering 25 major crops gorwn in the state since 1995. The present scheme aims at revamping marginal farmers. Out lay of the scheme is Rs.100 lakhs Beneficiaries : Farmers, Family, Community, Other Eligibility : Any farmer How to Avail : By contacting the agriculture department and local self government institutions Top of page ii.RASHTRIYA KRISHI BIMA YOJANA (RKBY) Crops Covered : a. Food crops (Cereals, Millets & Pulses) b. Oilseeds c. Sugarcane, Cotton & Potato (Annual Commercial / Annual Horticultural crops). STATES AND AREAS TO BE COVERED : all States and Union Territories. Eligibility : All farmers including sharecroppers, tenants farmers growing the notified crops in the areas are eligible for coverage. How to Apply : Contact Ministry of Agriculture or concerned State Agriculture Departments http://agricoop.nic.in/Rkvy/Rkvyfinal- 1.pdf Top of page iii.Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) Sponsored by : Both Central and State Government Description : Aims at achieving 4% annual growth in the agricultural sector during the XI plan period Beneficairies : Individual, Family, Community, Women, Children Eligibility Criteria : All the Sates and Union territories How to Avail : Contact Ministry of Agriculture or concerned State Agriculture Departments Reference URL : http://agricoop.nic.in/Rkvy/Rkvyfinal-1.pdf (138 KB) Top of page iv.FLOOR PRICE SCHEME FOR AGRI/HORT. COMMODITIES IN KARNATAKA Objectives To ensure price stability in the Agriculture sector, it is necessary to ensure remunerative prices for the farmers' produce. It is, with this objective that Floor Prices Scheme for Agricultural commodities in Karnataka has been implemented. To protect the interests of the farmers against distress sale of agricultural commodities by assuring a floor price, The Agricultural Policy Resolution of the Government of Karnataka stressed to bring in "Price and Market Reforms" in the Agricultural Sector of the State. The scheme shall be applicable in the whole state of Karnataka and to notified Agricultural and Horticultural commodities grown in the state. To start with, the scheme has been restricted to purchase of onion and potato. This scheme is in addition to Minimum Support Price Scheme of Government of India. The scheme has come into effect from 24th November, 1999. Funding Pattern : For the year 2000-01 a sum of Rs 75.00 Crores have been allocated for the floor fund scheme out of which Rs.50.00 Crores will be met out by the APMCs and Rs 25.00 Crores will be State Government Grant. The Karnataka State Agricultural Marketing Board is authorised to operate the funds of this scheme. Top of page v.PLEDGE LOAN SCHEME Features: This scheme is in force since 1994-95 in 132 markets of the State. Loans up to Rs. 50,000-00 or 60% of the value of the agricultural produce may be paid to the farmers against the pledge of their agricultural produce. No interest will be charged for the first 30 days. Interest at the rate of 8% and 12.5% will be charged for the next two successive months The scheme is for a short period of 90 days. Rule 60(A) of the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Rules 1968 provides for sanction of short term advance by the Market Committee to the producer – seller on pledge of his notified Agricultural Produce with the Market Committee or on deposit of the receipts issued by the State Warehousing Corporation or Central Warehousing Corporation. An amount up to 60% of the value of the produce or a maximum of Rs.50,000 will be sanctioned for a period of 90 days. Reference URL: http://maratavahini.kar.nic.in/apmc_eng/e_schemes.htm Top of page vi.Gramin Bhandaran Yojna Features : Creation of scientific storage capacity with allied facilities in rural areas to meet the requirements of farmers for storing farm produce, processed farm produce and agricultural inputs. Also, promotion of grading, standardization and quality control of agricultural produce to improve their marketability. the scheme also aims at prevention of distress sale immediately after harvest by providing the facility of pledge. How to Apply : This scheme can be availed by a group of financial institutions/banks listed under the scheme. http://agmarknet.nic.in/amrscheme/rural head.htm Top of page Kerala i.Crop Insurance Scheme Funding Pattern : 100% by State Government Description : Farmers in the State face production irsks on various counts, such as drought, floods, etc. A crop insurance farmers, covering 25 major crops gorwn in the state since 1995. The present scheme aims at revamping marginal farmers. Out lay of the scheme is Rs.100 lakhs Beneficiaries : Farmers, Family, Community, Other Eligibility : Any farmer How to Avail : By contacting the agriculture department and local self government institutions Top of page ii.Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) Sponsored by : Both Central and State Government Description : Aims at achieving 4% annual growth in the agricultural sector during the XI plan period Beneficairies : Individual, Family, Community, Women, Children Eligibility Criteria : All the Sates and Union territories How to Avail : Contact Ministry of Agriculture or concerned State Agriculture Departments Reference URL : http://agricoop.nic.in/Rkvy/Rkvyfinal-1.pdf (138 KB) Top of page Agricultural Schemes - Central Schemes i.National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) Name of Scheme : National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS) Type : Central Sector Scheme (CSS) Year of Commencement : 1999-2000 (Rabi season) Objectives : To provide insurance coverage and financial support to the farmers in the event of failure of any of the notified crops as a result of natural calamities, pests and diseases. To encourage the farmers to adopt progressive farming practices, high value in-puts and higher technology in agriculture. To help stabilize farm incomes, particularly in disaster years. Funding Pattern : Expenses on account of indemnity claims, Corpus Fund, A & O Expenses, publicity, premium subsidy to small and marginal farmers etc. are shared between Central and State Governments on 50 : 50 basis. Eligibility : Farmers irrespective of the size of holding. Persons to be contacted : The Joint Secretary, Credit Division, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi-110114. Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Agriculture Insurance Company of India Ltd. (AIC), 13 th Floor, Ambadeep, Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi – 110001. Top of page ii.Pilot Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (WBCIS) Type : Central Sector Scheme (CSS) Year of Commencement : 2007-08 (on pilot basis) Objectives : To provide insurance protection to farmers against adverse weather incidence, such as deficit & excess rainfall, frost (low temperature), heat (temperature), relative humidity etc. which are deemed to impact crops adversely during their cultivation period. Salient Features The scheme is applicable to major cereals, millets, pulses, oilseeds and commercial/horticultural crops. The scheme is compulsory for loanee farmers and voluntary for non-loanee farmers. All farmers including sharecroppers and tenant farmers growing notified crops in the notified areas are eligible for coverage. Funding Pattern : Only up-front support in the form of premium subsidy to the farmers is provided, which is equally shared by the Central and State Government. All the payable claims are the responsibility of the insurance companies. Eligibility : Farmers irrespective of the size of holding. Persons to be contacted : (I)The Joint Secretary, Credit Division, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi. (ii) Secretary (Agri./Coop.), concerned State Government. (iii) Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Agriculture Insurance Company of India Ltd. (AIC), 13th Floor, Ambadeep, Kasturba Gandhi Marg, New Delhi – 110001. (iv) Managing Director & CEO, ICICI-Lombard General Insurance Company Ltd., Zenith House, Keshavrao Khadye Marg, Opposite Race Course, Mahalakshmi, Mumbai – 400034. (v) Managing Director, IFFCO-Tokio General Insurance Company Ltd., IFFCO Tower, 5thFloor, Plot No. 3, Sector 29, Gurgaon-122001. (vi) Managing Director, Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Ltd, Dare House, 2nd Floor, No. 2 NSC Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001. Top of page iii.Post Harvest Technology and Management Year of commencement : 2007-08 Salient Features •Establishment of units utilizing the available post harvest technologies and management, value addition, scientific storage, packaging technologies developed by ICAR, CSIR and those identified from within the country and abroad in the production catchments is supported with 40% assistance from the Government under the bilateral agreement of ICAR and Self Help Group (SHG)/User Groups (UG) of farmers/ Cooperative Societies of Farmers/NonGovernmental Organizations (NGOs). •Creation of adequate infrastructure with the farmers for primary processing and value addition through the establishment of available technologies not requiring initial investments more than Rs. 2.00 lakh at farmer’s fields with government assistance (subsidy) @ 40% of the total cost of the technology/ project. • Training to improve upon the technical know-how of the users of post harvest technologies for its proper and effective utilization, encourage manufacturers to take up the commercial production of technologies developed by the Research and 66 Development organizations and propagate technologies developed by other institutions. Eligibility : Self Help Group (SHG)/User Groups (UG) of farmers/ Cooperative Societies of Farmers/Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) Person to be contacted : Joint Secretary (M&T), Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi- 110114. Top of page iv.Institutional Credit Facilities Schemes The Task Force on Agricultural Credit has given the main emphasis on adequate and timely credit support to the farmers, particularly small and marginal farmers for adoption of modern technology and improved agricultural practices. The institutional credit disbursed through co-operatives, Commercial Banks and Regional Rural Banks. The institutional credit to Agriculture is offered in the form of short term, medium term and long term credit facilities Short term and medium term loans Name of Scheme Eligibility Objectives/Facilities 1. Crop Loan All categories of farmers. To meet cultivation expenses for various crops as short-term loan. This loan is extended in the form of direct finance to farmers with a repayment period not exceeding 18 months. 2.Produce Marketing Loan All categories of farmers. This loan is given to help farmers to store produce on their own to avoid distress sale. This loan also facilitates immediate renewal of crop loans for next crop. The repayment period of the loan does not exceed 6 months. 3. Kisan Credit Card Scheme (KCCS) All agriculture clients having good track record for the last two years. This card provides running account facilities to farmers to meet their prduction credit and contingency needs. The scheme follows simplified procedures to enable the farmers to avail the crop loans as and when they need. Minimum credit limit is Rs. 3000/-. Credit limit is based on operational land holding, cropping pattern and scale of finance. Withdrawals can be made by using easy and convenient withdrawal slips. The Kisan Credit Card is valid for 3 years subject to annual review. It also covers personal insurance against death or permanent disability for maximum amount of Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 25,000 respectively. Long term loan Name of Scheme Eligibility Objectives/Facilities Agricultural Term Loan All categories of farmers (small/medium and agricultural labourers) are eligible, provided they have necessary experience in the activity and required area. The banks extend this loan to farmers to create assets facilitating crop production/income generation. Activities covered under this scheme are land development, minor irrigation, farm mechanization, plantation and horticulture, dairying, poultry, sericulture, dry land / waste land development schemes etc. This loan is offered in the form of direct finance to farmers with a repayment span not lass than 3 years and not exceeding 15 years. Top of page v.Minimum Support Price Scheme The government fixes minimum support prices or MSPs is to ensure remunerative prices to farmers to encourage higher investment and production of agricultural commodities. Every year MSPs for major agricultural products are announced which are fixed after taking into account the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP). The CACP while recommending MSPs takes into account factors such as cost of production, change in prices of inputs, demand and supply, market price trends and cost of living among other factors. Government organises Price Support Schemes as PSS of commodities through various public and cooperative agencies such as Food Corporation of India (FCI)(External website that opens in a new window), Cotton Corporation of India Ltd. (CCI)- External website that opens in a new window, Jute Corporation of India Ltd. (JCI)- External website that opens in a new window, National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED)- External website that opens in a new window and Tobacco Board(External website that opens in a new window) for which the MSPs are fixed. For commodities not covered under PSS, the government arranges for market intervention on specific request from the States for a specific quantity at a mutually agreed price. The losses, if any, are borne by the Centre and State on a 50:50 basis. Minimum Support Price of Ragi for 2010-11 is Rs.965 per quintal Top of page Farm Mechanisation Schemes i.AGRICULTURAL MECHANISATION PROGRAMME Funding Pattern: 90:10 (Centre : State) (Macro Management of Agriculture) Project Area: All Districts Details of Works : Subsidy assistance is provided to farmers for procuring Agricultural Machinery and implements such as Tractors, Power Tillers, Tractor drawn Rotavators etc.,. Benefits offered (Subsidy) Tractor - 25% of the cost limited to Rs. 45000/- upto 40 HP Power Tillers - 40%of the cost limited to Rs. 45000/- ( 8 HP & above) Tractor drawn Rotavators - 25% of the cost limited to Rs. 20000/- Eligibility : All farmers Officer to be approached Assistant Executive Engineer, AED in the Revenue Division. Executive Engineer, AED in the District. Superintending Engineer, AED in the Region. Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, Nandanam, Chennai-35. Phone 2435 2686 , 2435 2622 Top of page ii.Demonstration of Agricultural Machinery and Implements Funding Pattern : Fully funded (100 %) by Government of India Project Area : All Districts (Except Chennai) Details of Works : Demonstrations of Agricultural Implements / Machinery are taken up in the Farmers’ Fields. Eligibility : All farmers Officer to be approached Assistant Executive Engineer, AED in the Revenue Division. Executive Engineer, AED in the District. Superintending Engineer, AED in the Region. Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, Nandanam, Chennai-35. Phone 2435 2686 , 2435 2622 Top of page iii.Rain Water Harvesting and Runoff Management Programme Project Area : All Districts (Except Chennai and Nilgiris) Funding Pattern : State Plan Scheme Details of Works : Percolation ponds with Recharge Shaft Major, medium and minor check dams Farm Ponds Rejuvenation of unused wells Village tanks /Ooranies Benefits offered : (Subsidy) Beneficiaries are required to contribute 10% towards maintenance of the works in community lands (it is 5% in case of SC/ST) in cash which will be deposited in the name of the Village Development Association / Watershed Association. The accrued interest will be utilised for the maintenance of the assets created. Works in patta lands are taken up with 90 % grant and the remaining 10% is collected as beneficiary share (it is 5% in case of SC/ST) in the form of Cash / labour / material. Eligibility : All the farmers in the selected watersheds in the respective district. Officer to be Approached Assistant Executive Engineer, AED in the Revenue Division. Executive Engineer, AED in the District. Superintending Engineer, AED in the Region. Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, Nandanam, Chennai-35. Phone 2435 2686 , 2435 2622 Top of page iv. Replacement of old Pumpsets with new Pumpsets. Funding Pattern : State Plan Scheme Project Area : All Districts (except Chennai) Details of Works Replacement of old, inefficient electrical pumpsets with new ISI pumpsets and Renewal of Electrical accessories. Benefits offered (Subsidy) Description For SC/ST Farmers For Other Farmers Pump sets below 5 HP Subsidy of Rs.3500 or50% of the cost of the pump set Whichever is less Subsidy of Rs.2500 or 25% of the cost of the pump set. Whichever is less. Pump sets of 5 HP &above Subsidy of Rs.6000 or 50% of the cost of the pump set Whichever is less Subsidy of Rs.5000 or 25% of the cost of the pump set. Whichever is less. Cost of renewal of panel and other electrical accessories Subsidy of Rs.1500 or 50% of the cost of panel Whichever is less. Eligibility : The farmers having agricultural wells with old, inefficient Electrical pump sets of Energy Index more than 0.75 in all the districts of Tamil Nadu (except Chennai) Officer to be Approached Assistant Executive Engineer, AED in the Revenue Division. Executive Engineer, AED in the District. Superintending Engineer, AED in the Region. Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, Nandanam, Chennai-35. Phone 2435 2686 , 2435 2622 Top of page v.National Agriculture Development Programme Funding Pattern : State Plan Scheme Details of works S.No Component Item of works 1 Agricultural Mechanisation a) Introduction of newly developed agricultural1 machinery / implements b) Popularising conventional machinery / implements. 2 Dry Land Development Plastic lined farm pond with portable sprinkler unit b) Unlined farm pond c) Compartmental Bunding 3 Establishment of land resources inventory and GIS data base Digitisation of cadastral maps of potential crop growing villages Benefits offered (Subsidy) Benefits offered (Subsidy) : 50% subsidy assistance is provided to farmers for purchasing newly developed agricultural implements such as mini combine harvester, multi crop thrasher, paddy transplanter , and 25% subsidy assistance is provided to farmers for purchasing conventional machinery / implements such as power tiller, rotavator, cultivator, offset disc harrow, disc plough etc., Eligibility : All Farmers Officer to be approached Assistant Executive Engineer, AED in the Revenue Division Executive Engineer, AED in the District. Superintending Engineer, AED in the Region. Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, Nandanam, Chennai-35. Phone 2435 2686, 2435 2622 Top of page vi.Land Development Scheme Funding Pattern : State - Non Plan Scheme Area of operation : All Districts Details of Works Land Shaping Land Levelling Land Reclamation Ploughing, Puddling Paddy Harvesting by Combine Harvester. Benefits offered (Subsidy) Agricultural Engineering Department hires out machinery to farmers as per Government approved hire charges and execute the above works Details of hire charges of Land Development Machinery S. No. Name of Machinery Hire Charges ( Rs. per hour- With Diesel) 1 Tractor 265 2 Bulldozer 670 3 Tractor mounted Combine Harvester 780 4 Class crop Tiger Combine Harvesters rubber track type 1130 Eligibility : All Farmers. Officer to be approached Assistant Executive Engineer, AED in the Revenue Division. Executive Engineer, AED in District. Superintending Engineer, AED in the Region. Chief Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, Nandanam, Chennai-35.Phone 2435 2686 , 2435 2622 Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home About Us Contact Us Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Frequently Asked Questions Climate Cultivation Systems Cultivation Practices Crop Protection Season & Varieties Nursery Management Nutrient Management Post Harvest Technology Contract All | Expand All Climate Where ragi crop grows best? Ragi is a crop of tropical and subtropical climate and can be grown successfully on hill slopes as well as in plains. It is very adaptable to higher elevations and is grown in the Himalaya up to 2,300 metres in elevation. It is a very hardy crop. It can be grown under rainfed as well as irrigated conditions. Which areas of south India are best suited for growing ragi? Regions in Southern India, comprising Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu (750 to 800 and 100 to 150) are well suited. What is the optimum temperature and rainfall for growing ragi? It is suited for cultivation in areas with annual rainfall of 700 to 1200mm. It does not tolerate heavy rainfall and requires a dry spell at the time of grain ripening. Temperature during the crop season varies between 250 and 320C. At which season can the ragi variety CO RA14 can be grown in TamilNadu? Irrigated - Marghazipattam (Dec – Jan) & Chithiraipattam (April - May) Rainfed - Adipattam (June – July) & Puratasipattam (September - October) What is the duration of ragi variety CO RA14? • Duration: Medium duaration variety • Duartion days: 105 to 110 days What is the grain yield for CO RA 14 vareity? • Under irrigated condition – 2892 kg /ha • Under rainfed condition – 2794 kg /ha Is the resistant ragi variety CO RA14 suitable to grow under Tamil Nadu conditions? Yes. It can be grown in all districts except Kanyakumari & Nilgiris. Top of page Season and Varieties At which season can the ragi variety CO 13 can be grown in TamilNadu? • Irrigated - Marghazipattam (Dec – Jan) - Chithiraipattam (April - May) • Rainfed - Adipattam (June - July) - Puratasipattam (September - October) NOTE: It can be grown in all districts except Kanyakumari & Nilgiris. What is the duration of ragi variety CO 13? • Duration: Medium duration variety • Duration days: 95 to 100 days What is the grain yield for CO13 variety? • Under irrigated condition – 3600 kg /ha • Under rainfed condition – 2300 kg /ha What is the duration of ragi variety CO 9? Duration days: 100 days Which season is suitable for growing CO9 in TamilNadu? Season: Irrigated - Marghazipattam (Dec – Jan) - Chithiraipattam (April – May) What is the duration of ragi variety Paiyur (RA) 2? • Duration: Long duration variety • Duration days: 115 days What is the grain yield for Paiyur (RA)2 variety? Grain yield under rainfed condition is 3150 kg /ha. Is there any high yielding ragi variety that can grow well under Tamil Nadu agro climatic conditions? Yes. TRY 1 variety yields about 4011kg/ha and it can grow well in TamilNadu except districts of Kanyakumari and TamilNadu. What is the duration and season for growing TRY 1 ragi variety? • Duration: Medium duration variety • No. of days: 102 days • Season: Irrigated - Marghazipattam (Dec – Jan) What are the varieties released under Karnataka? GPU 28, GPU 26, GPU 45, MR 6, L 5 What is the duration for GPU 28 ragi variety? • Duration: Medium duartion variety • Duration days: 110 to 115 days What is the grain yield for GPU 28 ragi variety? Grain yield: 40-45 q/ha under irrigated and 30-35 q/ha under rainfed conditions. Name the short duration ragi crops that suits Karnataka? GPU 26 variety has a duration period of 90 to 100 days. Name the medium duration ragi crops that suits Karnataka? GPU 45 variety has a duration period of 104 to 109 days. Name the long duration ragi crops that suits Karnataka? • L 5 vareity have a duration period of 115 to 120 days. • MR 6 vareity have a duration period of 120 days. What yield can the MR 6 ragi variety give? Grain yield: 45 – 50 q/ha under irrigated & 30-35 q/ha under rainfed condition. What is the duration and yield of GPU 48 variety? • Duration: Short duration variety • Duration days: About 100 days • Grain yield: 37 q/ha. What are the seasons to be considered for ragi cultivation? • Main season: June to September • Late season: July to October • Summer: December – January to March – April Is ragi a season bound crop? No, ragi is not a season bound crop and hence can be cultivated throughout the year, if moisture is available. Top of page Cultivation systems What are the two systems of cultivation? Irrigated and Rainfed What are the methods practiced in irrigated system of cultivation? a) Direct sown crop b) Transplanted crop c) System of Ragi Intensification(SRI) Which method of ploughing is advantageous in rainfed system of cultivation? Fallow ploughing. Which method of sowing is ideal for rainfed system of cultivation? Line sowing What is the average rainfall for the rainfed ragi crop? Average and well distributes rainfall of 450 to 500 mm is optimum for rainfed ragi. How to carry on tillage in ragi main field under rain fed condition? Fall ploughing is advantageous for moisture conservation. In the month of April or May, one deep ploughing with mould board plough followed by ploughing with wooden plough twice is necessary. Before sowing secondary tillage with cultivar and multiple tooth hoe to prepare smooth seed bed is necessary. What is the population density recommended for rainfed ragi field? A plant population of 4 to 5 lakhs per ha is optimum for getting higher yields and higher or lower population than the optimum will reduce the yield. How to sow the rainfed ragi seeds? Line sowing is ideal and seed drills giving spacing 22.5 to 30 cm between rows should be used. Ragi seeds are very small (400 seeds/ g) and the recommended seed rate of 15 to 20 kg per hectare will contain about 4 million seeds. Therefore, even when seed drill is used thinning the row leaving a spacing 7.5 to 10 cm between plants, must be followed. Sowing by seed-cum-fertilizer drill is advantageous for line sowing besides efficient utilization of applied nutrients. How to trouble shoot poor germination of rain fed ragi under field conditions? Poor germination, often, is the result of inadequate moisture after sowing in low rainfall areas. Under these conditions, the adoption of a simple technique like seed hardening will not only improve germination and subsequent plant stand but also impact early seedling vigour and tolerance to drought. What are the steps involved in seed hardening technique? Step 1: Sole seeds in water for 6 hours. Use one litre water for every kg seed for soaking. • Step 2: drain the water and keep the seeds in wet cloth bag tightly tied for two days. • Step 3: At this stage, the seeds will show initial signs of germination. • Step 4: Remove seeds from the wet cloth bag and dry them in shade on a dry cloth for 2 days. • Step 5: Use the above hardened seeds for sowing. What is the seed rate and spacing for direct sown crop? Seed rate is 10Kg/ha and spacing is 22.5*15cm What are the features of SRI? SRI Technology uses less inputs. It uses less seed, water, chemical fertilizers and pestisides but uses more organic manures. Ragi grown with SRI Technology has large root volume, profuse and strong tillers with big panicles, more and well – filled spikelets with higher grain weight. Under SRI, ragi fields are not flooded but only kept moist by alternate wetting and drying. What are the basic principles of SRI? 1. Use of young seedlings for transplanting 2. Careful transplanting 3. Planting at wider spacing 4. Weed control 5. Water Management 6. Organic manures How much seeds used for sowing in SRI system? 1.25 Kg seeds are used for one hectare What is the age of the seedlings to transplant in main field? 8-12 days old seedlings are transplanted in main field How to plant the seedlings in main field? The seedlings are planted in square pattern and only one seedling is planted per hill. What are the benefits of SRI? Higher grain and straw yields * Reduction in duration by 10 days. * Lesser chemical inputs * Less water requirement (About half that of conventional method) * Less chaffy grain * Grain weight increased without change in grain size * Higher head ragi recovery * Withstood cyclonic gales. * Soil health improves through biological activity * Cold tolerance What are the constraints of SRI? Non availability of labours at the initial states of planting. So it is a barrier to adopt this technology by farmers Farmers need more experience to practices this method SRI results well in rabi season because they have more water control and there is more sunlight. But in the kharif (summer) season, the timing of the monsoon’s onset is unpredictable, and its arrival brings serious flooding, which makes it hard for farmers to maintain soil aeration. Unavailability of suitable weeders Traditional mindest of farmers Lack of awareness about the technology Top of page Nursery management What is the chemical seed treatment for ragi seeds? Slurry treat the graded seed with Carbendazim at 2 g or Thiram 75% WDP at 4 g in 5 ml of water per of seed. How to treat ragi seeds with cow urine? These are the steps to be followed in sequence to treat ragi seeds 1. Mix one part of cow urine with 10 parts of water 2. Pour the Ragi seeds into this and let them wait for 15 minutes 3. 2 minutes into these 15 minutes, remove the hollow floating seeds 4. After the 15 minutes have passed, pour off the water to separate the hard seeds on the bottom from the water 5. Dry the seeds in the shade before sowing What is the seed rate for sowing ragi? Direct sown crop: 15 to 20 kg per ha (Rainfed crop) Transplanted crop: 4 to 5 kg per ha (Irrigated crop) For ragi nursery bed preparation what size of plot must be prepared and how? Prepare 12.5 cents (500m2) of nursery area to plant 1ha. Mix 37.5kg of super phosphate with 500kg of FYM or compost and spread the mixture evenly on the nursery area. What are the measurements to form raised beds? Mark units of 6 plots each of size 3m x 1.5m. Provide 30 cm space between plots for irrigation. Excavate the soil from the inter space and all around to a depth of 15 cm to form channels . What are the pre-treatments for ragi seeds to prevent fungal attack? Mix the seeds in a polythene bag to ensure a uniform coating of seeds with Pseudomonas sp. 2gram/kg of seeds. Seed treatment with Azospirillum may be done @ 3 packets/ha (600g/ha). How to sow ragi seeds? Broadcast 5 kg of treated seeds evenly on the beds and sprinkle with 200 kg of powered FYM. Sprinkle 500 kg of powered FYM over the beds evenly to cover the seeds which are exposed and compact the surface lightly What is the optimum depth for sowing ragi seeds? Ragi seeds must be sown at an optimum depth of 1cm because deep sowing will adversely affect germination. How to control the water supply to ragi nursery plot? Provide one inlet to each nursery unit. Allow water to enter through the inlet and cover all the channels around the beds. Allow the water in the channels to raise till the raised beds are wet and then cut off water. Do not allow cracks to develop in the nursery bed by properly adjusting the quantity of irrigation water. How many days after sowing (DAS) the ragi seedling will be ready to be planted in main field? Pull out seedlings on the 17th to 20th day of sowing for planting in main field. Top of page Cultivation practices What are the soils best suited to grow ragi? It is a suitable crop on alluvial loamy and sandy soils, with good drainage but reasonable water- holding capacity. It can tolerate some water logging. Black soils with sufficient drainage capacity also support good crop of ragi. In south India which soil suits best for ragi cultivation? In southern India, it predominates on marginal soil conditions, provided by lateritic and red sandy loams. How to transplant the ragi seedlings? What is the rate of planting? Plant 2 seedlings per hill. Plant the seedlings at a depth of 3 cm. Plant 18 to 20 days old seedlings Adopt a spacing of 15x15 cm for planting. What is the weeding practice to be followed in ragi main field? Hand weed twice on the 10th and 20th day after transplanting. Hoe and hand weed on the 15th day of planting in light soils and 17th day planting in heavy soils and subsequently on 30th and 32nd days, respectively. Allow the weeds to dry for 2 or 3 days after hand weeding before giving irrigation. What is the size for beds and channels in ragi main field? Beds must be of size 10m2 to 20m2 according to topography of the field. What weed control practices are to be followed for rainfed ragi? In line sown crop 2-3 inter-cultivations are necessary. In assured rainfall and irrigated areas spraying 2,4-D sodium salt @0.75 kg.a.i./ha as post-emergent spray around 20 to 25 days after sowing effectively controls weeds. Isoproturon @ 0.5 a.i. /ha as pre-emergence spray is also effective in control of weeds. In broadcast crop two effective hand weedings will minimize weeds as inter cultivations is not possible. What are the crops that can be rotated with ragi? Legumes like green gram / black gram / field gram / soybean / horse gram or ground nut in southern state will minimize inorganic fertilizer application and also sustain higher yields. Ragi – Maize (2 year crop rotation) gave higher yield per unit area as compared to Ragi – Ragi crop rotation. What are the crops that can be intercropped with ragi? ntercrops includes field bean (Lablab purpureus), pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan), cowpea (Vigna sinensis), and niger (Guizotia abysinnica), castor bean, niger, groundnut and pulses. With groundnuts, ragi is the subsidiary crop. In hills it is grown mixed with soybean. Sometimes the ragi intercropped with mustard, because mustard flowers bloom during the early stages of the ragi crop and attracts lady bird beetles, a predator of aphids, attacking the ragi crop. In case of rain failure, mustard acts as an insurance crop. What are the proportions at which ragi can be intercropped with other crops? Ragi + Pigeon pea combination in 8:2 or 6:2 proportion brings higher returns Ragi + field bean in 8:1 proportion resulted in enhancing the productivity. Ragi + Fodder sorghum in 8:1 proportion resulted in enhancing the productivity in Karnataka. Ragi + black gram or green gram in 8:2 proportions is the other profitable crop combinations. Top of page Nutrient management What is the NPK recommendation for the main field for planting ragi? Fertilizer should be applied according to soil test recommendations. If soil test values are not available, 50 to 60 kg Nitrogen, 30 to 40 kg P2O5 and 20 to 30 kg K2O per hectare. How much FYM must be applied to the main field before planting the ragi seedlings? Spread 12.5 t/ha of FYM or compost coir pith evenly on the unploughed field and then plough and incorporate in the soil. (Do not spread and leave the manure uncovered in the field as nutrients will be lost). How the fertilizers have to be applied in main field? Entire amount of phosphatic and potassic and half of nitrogenous fertilizer should be applied at sowing time. The entire quantity of fertilizers should be applied 8 to 10 centimeter deep in soil at the time of sowing. Half of the remaining dose of nitrogen should be top dressed in two equal split doses after 30 and 50 days of sowing. What are the biofertilizers recommendations for ragi before planting the seedlings? Apply 10 packets /ha (2000g) of Azospirillum inoculant after mixing with 25 kg of soil and 25 kg of farmyard manure before transplanting. Application of 2 tonnes of enriched farmyard manure per hectare with 100% P and K fertilizer gave higher yield of Ragi in Coimbatore. What is the recommended micronutrient dose for ragi and how to apply them? Mix 12.5 kg of micronutrient mixture formulated by the Agriculture Department with enough sand to make a total quality of 50 kg/ha. Apply the mixture evenly on the beds. Do not incorporate the mixture in the soil. How and when to apply Azospirillum for ragi plant? At the time of transplantation, prepare slurry with 5 packets (1000g) per hectare of Azospirillum inoculant in 40 litres of water and dip the root portion of the seedlings in the solution for 15 to 30 minutes and transplant. What is the NPK dose recommended for rain fed ragi? The recommended doses of fertilizers vary from state to state for rainfed crop. Recommended dose of 40:20:20 kg per ha N:P:K was applied. With judicious application of farmyard manure inorganic fertilizer efficiency is enhanced. In how many splits and at what sequence the fertilizers had to be applied? Entire P2O5 and K2O are to be applied at sowing, whereas nitrogen is to be applied in two or three split doses depending upon moisture availability. In areas of good rainfall and moisture availability, 50% of recommended nitrogen is to be applied at sowing and the remaining 50% in two equal splits at 25 to 30 and 40 to 45 days after sowing. In areas of uncertain rainfall, 50% at sowing and the remaining 50% around 35 days after sowing is recommended. What is the biofertilizer recommendation for the rain fed ragi? Treating seeds with Azospirillum brasilense (N fixing bacterium) and Aspergillus awamori (P solubilizing fungus) @ 25 g/kg seed is beneficial. How to apply the chemicals and biofertilizers to the seeds of rain fed ragi? In case seeds are to be treated with seed dressing chemicals, treat the seeds first with dressing chemicals and then with bio-fertilizers at the time of sowing. What is the procedure for applying the biofertilizers to rain fed ragi seeds? Step 1: Bio-fertilizer culture specific to the crop is to be used @ 25g /kg of seed. Step 2: Sticker solution is necessary for effective seed inoculation. This can be prepared by dissolving 25g jaggery or sugar in 250 ml water and boiling for 5 minutes. The solution thus prepared is cooled. Step 3: Smear the seeds well using the required quantity of sticker solution. Then add culture to the seeds and mix thoroughly so as to get a fine coating of culture on the seed. Step 4: The culture-coated seeds is to be dried well in shade to avoid clumping of seeds. Step 5: Use the inoculated seeds for sowing. Top of page Crop protection Which ragi variety is resistant to leaf blast? Paiyur (RA) 2 variety is resistant to leaf blast & moderately resistant to neck and finger blast. Name a ragi variety resistant to neck and finger blast? CO RA14 Is there any blast resistant ragi variety that suits Karnataka? Yes. MR 6 is a ragi variety highly tolerant to neck and finger blast. GPU 48 is tolerant to blast. How to protect ragi nursery from pest and diseases? Spray neem kernal extract 5% to the nursery. Repeat the same if needed. Spray Psudomonas sp. at 2g/litre of water. How to avoid pest in ragi serving grain purpose? In case of grain purpose ragi, dry the seeds adequately to reduce the moisture level of 10% to avoid pest. How to avoid pest incidence in case of seed purpose ragi? In case of seed purpose ragi admix one kg of Activated Kaolin for every 100kg of seed. Pack in gunny or polythene lined gunny bags for storage to avoid infestation with pest. What are the major diseases of ragi? The main diseases of ragi are blast, seedling blights, wilt or foot rot, smut, downy mildew and mosaic virus. What causes yellow spindle shaped lesions in the ragi crops? Blast disease shows such characteristic symptoms. This disease is caused by Pyricularia griseus. What are the clear symptoms of blast disease? The pathogen attacks the crop from seedling stage to the time of grain formation. The lesions are spindle shaped and are of different size. In the beginning, the spots have yellow margin with grayish green centre. Under humid conditions, an olive grey overgrowth of fungus can be seen on the centre of the spot. Later the centre become whitish grey and disintegrates. The lesions on the seedlings are about 0.3 to 0.5 cm in breadth and 1 -2 cm in length. Stem infection causes blackening of the nodal region. Maximum damage in caused by the neck infection. The neck region turns black and shrinks. Infection may also occur at the basal portions of the panicle branches including the fingers. The affected portions turn brown and ears become chaffy and only few shriveled grains are formed. In which areas the blast disease is prevalent? Blast is commonly seen in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The disease was first reported in Tamil Nadu in 1919. It is stated that the disease can cause a loss of grain upto 50 per cent. Optimum temperature is 25 to 300 C. High relative humidity (92 to 95 per cent) and continuous drizzles also favour this disease much. How does the disease spread? The fungus is seed-borne and the primary infection takes place through the seed-borne conidia and also the other crops serve as source of inoculum. The secondary spread is through air-borne conidia, the initial inoculum probably coming from weeds or some cereal plants acting as collateral hosts. How to control the spread of the blast disease in ragi? What are the practices to be adopted for effective control? *Avoid excess use of N application. *Seed Treatment with Carbendazim 1gm/kg seeds. *Spray Carbendazim 0.1 % to nursery 10-12 days after sowing. Repeat the spray 20 to 25 days after transplanting if the disease incidence is more than 5%. Repeat the spray 40 to 50 days after transplanting (before flowering) if found necessary. *Treat seed with Agrosan G.N. or Ceresan at the rate of 2.5g per kg of seed. *Spray Pseudomonas sp. at 2 g /lit of water First spray immediately and after noticing the symptoms. Second and Third sprays at flowering stage at 15 days interval to control neck and finger infection of blast disease of necessary. *Treat the seed with Pseudomonas fluorescens and spray the extracts of Prosopis juliflora leaf extract (10%), Ipomoea carnea leaf extract (10%) to reduce the incidence of blast. *Foliar spray with Aureofungin sol (100ppm) at 50% earhead emergence followed by a second spray of Pseudomonas sp. at 2g/lit of water 10 days later to reduce neck and finger blast. What is the cause for brown lesions on the seedlings of ragi which also continues upto matured stage of the plant? This kind of symptom is caused by Drechslera nodulosum. This disease is called seedling blight. This is one of the common diseases of ragi in India, the Philippines and parts of Africa. It is also found on other graminaceous hosts. In India it occurs in severe form in some years in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. How to find the presence of seedling blight in seedlings? The first symptom appears on the seedlings as minute oval, light brown lesions on the young leaves. As the seedlings develop, these enlarge into elongate lesions and become dark brown. Several such lesions coalesce to form large patches of infection on the leaf blade. The affected blades wither prematurely and the seedlings may be killed. In some cases the infection may be found on the basal portion of the seedling and on the roots, resulting in the death of the seedling from post-emergence rot. How to find the presence of seedling blight in grown up ragi plants? On grown up plants the lesions are found on the leaf blade, leaf sheath and culm; on the leaf the spots are linear, oblong and dark brown; on the leaf sheath and culm they are somewhat irregular, with an ill-defined margin. The infection in the neck region is revealed as a prominent brown to dark brown discolouration followed by a weakening of the neck tissue that causes it to break, allowing the ears to hang down. Partial infection of the ear at the fingers or part of the fingers, as in the case of Pyricularia disease, is also common. While nursery infection causes heavy damage due to the seedling rot, neck infection causes heavy chaffiness and severe loss in grain yield. What are the favourable conditions that favour the spread of the seedling blight disease? Optimum temperature from infection is 30 to 320c and it can take place between 10 to 370C and 80 to 90% relative humidity. A rain during earhead emergence is favourable. The pathogen readily infects foxtail millet, Crow footgrass, Echinochloa sp, common millet or white millet, pearl millet, Sorghum and corn. The pathogen is seed-borne, passing from season to season mostly on the seed. When infected seed is sown in the nursery, the fungus infects the seedling systematically causing them to rot and blight. Secondary spread is through air-borne conidia. What are the effective control measures for preventing the spread of the disease? Treat the seeds with Captan or Thiram at 4g/kg Spray with Mancozeb at 1.25kg/ha Spraying with 1% Bordeaux mixture or Copper oxychloride is also suggested for the control of the disease Spray with Dithane Z-78 (2g/lit of water) What causes the ragi plant to become stunted with brownish soft clumped basal stem portion with leaf sheath? These kinds of symptoms are characteristic of the disease called fruit rot or wilt caused by Sclerotium rolfsii (Sacc.) Curzi. In general, wilt is of minor importance but in some areas it becomes severe during rainy seasons. Besides India, it also occurs in Sri Lanka. Presence of ecto-parasitic nematodes in soil makes the disease more complex, causing severe outbreaks in some parts of Karnataka. A wilt disease in ragi was observes in Coimbatore in 1954. What are the clear symptoms of the disease fruit rot in ragi? The infected plants remain green and stunted. The fungus attacks the basal stem portion and later the leaf sheath and culm. The infected portion becomes soft and dark brown in colour. The fungus is seen to grow in between the sheath and stem on the lesions. The plant ultimately dies. On the surface of lesions, small, spherical, dark coloured sclerotia are formed. How the disease of fruit rot in ragi spreads? How to control it? The fungus survives in the soil as sclerotia and spreads through irrigation water and implements. It is a weak pathogen, and when the plant is weakened due to physiological conditions or to insect and nematode attack, the fungus becomes active. The incidental or other types of wounds in the roots, including those caused by ectoparasitic nematodes, favour the entry of the fungus. Once inside the host the organism becomes virulent, causing severe damage to the plant. High soil moisture and high temperature (more than 300C) is highly favourable for the spread of the disease. No control measures have been worked out for this disease. Keeping the plants healthy and robust, and providing good drainage and other optimum soil conditions, help to avoid the disease. Deep ploughing before sowing and proper crop sequences involving non-poaceous crops reduces disease intensity. What is the cause for the presence of smutty, malformed grain in the earhead of ragi? Smut disease caused by the pathogen Melanopsichium eleusinis (Kulk.) Mundak and Thirum shows this symptom. The disease appears only at the time of grain setting. The affected grains are deformed and are filled with compact, hard, dark-coloured gall-like spore masses. Only a few grains are smutted and formed scattered in the spike. Is this smut disease of great importace? How to control it? This disease is of minor importance, being found only in certain areas of Karnataka and Maharashtra, where the damage caused usually is negligible. The disease is mainly air-borne, infecting only a few spikelets in the panicle. The spores are released from the sac while on the panicle, or they may reach the soil subsequent to harvest. This disease since air borne is difficult to control. But this can be prevented by proper cultural practices. Some varietal variations in the reaction to the smut disease are reported; hence there is a possibility of evolving resistant varieties to combat the disease. What is the reason for the dwarf, bushy appearance of the plant with brush like ear heads in ragi plants? Downy mildew disease (Sclerophthora Macrospore Sacc.) is the cause for the stunted and bushy growth of the ragi plant. This is known as green ear or crazy top. The pathogen is seed borne. Green ear disease was reported from Karnataka in 1947. It is less common in Tamil Nadu. What are the symptoms of the downy mildew disease? The infected plants are dwarf in appearance with shortened internodes. The leaves are formed closely and thus give a bushy and bunchy appearance. The leaves become pale green. The symptom is well expressed on the earhead which bears abnormal spikelets exhibiting various degrees of proliferation instead of normal spikelet. The whole earhead gives a brush like appearance. How to control the spread of the downy mildew disease in the ragi plants? Affected plants should be destroyed by burning. In case of severe attack spray Dithane M-45 on the standing crop at the rate of 2 g/litre of water. Keep the field clean. What causes the yellow mosaic pattern of chlorosis and dwarfing and sterility ragi plants? Mosaic virus causes this mosaic pattern of chlorosis in ragi plants. Mosaic disease in ragi is wide spread in many places of Tamil Nadu. The disease is high in April – may sown crops due to population of vectors viz., Cicadulina bipunctella and Cicadulina cinai. The insect Aphis maydis is commonly associated with the symptoms, and it may play a major role in spreading the disease. What are the symptoms of the mosaic disease in the ragi plants? Infection may occur at all stages of plant growth but the symptoms become most prominent from 4 to 6 weeks after planting. The first symptom is Chlorosis, followed by mosaic mottling and severe stunting of the plant. The entire plant becomes pale, dwarfed and sterile. Rarely the affected plants come to ear and if formed the panicle is mostly chaffy. As the disease advances, the plants wither prematurely and the diseased crop is easily identified from a distance. The loss in grain yield may be as high as 100 per cent, depending upon the age of the plant at the time of infection. A dry summer and bad drought conditions preceding the irrigated crop are believed to favor the disease. What are the control measures for the mosaic disease? Rogue out the affected plants. The disease intensity can be reduced considerably with heavy doses of phosphatic fertilizers combined with fortnightly sprays with a combination of fungicide and insecticide. What causes the yellow chlorotic specks and streaks in ragi plants? A disease called Mottle streak causes chlorotic streaks in ragi plants. Yellowing becomes severe on later stages. This is caused by Nucleorhabdovirus. The possible vector which favors the spread of this disease are Cicadulina bipuntella, C.chinai. These vectors can be controlled by spraying 0.03% Phosphamindon, 0.04% Diazinon or Dimethoate What are the clear symptoms of the mottle streak disease? Initial symptoms of mottle streak disease appear around 45 DAS in funnel leaves as small sparse chlorotic specks. Later the specks coalesce leading to short streaks. Yellowing of plants in severe infection. Infected plants produce more of nodal branches and unproductive tillers. Failure of earhead emergence with sparse grains are noticed during initial and late infection. How to manage the mottle straek virus in ragi plants? Rogue out the affected plants Spray systemic insecticides Methyl dematon or Monocrotophos 500ml/ha. when noticing symptom and repeat twice if necessary at 20 days interval to control the vector. What are the minor diseases of ragi? Bacterial leaf spot(Xanthomonas campestris pv. Eleusineae) and bacterial leaf blight (Xanthomonas coracana) What are the ectoparasites (Phanerogramic Parasite) in ragi plant? Striga asiatica kuntze and Striga densiflora benth What are the serious pests of ragi? Among the few pests affecting this crop, stem borer, aphids, hairy caterpillar, grass hoppers and earhead bugs are worth mentioning. What causes dead heart with drying of central shoot in the vegetative stage in ragi plants? Pink Stem borer, a serious pest of ragi causes dead heart symptom. The damage starts from the seedling stage and continues till maturity. Larva congregates inside the leaf whorls and feed on the central causing typical ‘pin hole’ symptom. Severe feeding results in drying of the central shoot and results in dead heart formation. How to identify the pink stem borer pest? Eggs are beadlike laid in rows, usually 30-100 per batch. The larva has an orange-red head with a purplish-pink body. The pupa is dark brown. Adult are medium sized, pale yellow brown moths. What are the cultural practices to be followed as a measure to control the infestation of pink stem borer in ragi? * Dead hearts should be pulled out and used as fodder or buried in manure pits. * Crop rotation with short duration non-graminaceous (legume) crop to reduce the borer population. This practice helps in breaking the life cycle of the borer. * Set up light trap till midnight to attract and kill the stem borer moths. * Harvesting the crop close to the ground level will greatly help in eliminating the larval and pupal stages of the pest. * Application of optimal rates of nitrogenous fertilizers in split application minimizes the crop susceptibility to the borer. What are the sprays recommended to control the pink stem borer infestation in ragi? Spray Methyl parathion 50 EC 1 ml/litre or Phosphamidon 85 WSC 0.5 ml/litre or Dimethoate 30 EC 1.7 ml/litre. Spray carbaryl 50 WP 1 kg per ha for the control of stem borer. What are the biocontrol methods to control the pink stem borer? Bio – control agents viz., Telenomus sp., Trichogramma minutum (egg parasites) and Apanteles flavipes, Bracon drinensis (larval parasites) and Tetrastichus ayyari (pupal parasites). What causes dead heart symptom with root damage? White stem borer causes these symptoms. The damage is similar to other stem borer, but caterpillar attacks the plant at root region. If the damage is severe, central shoot may die causing "Dead Heart'. If it is partial, the plants may turn yellow. How to distinguish the incidence of the white and pink stem borer? • Nature of damage varies in both cases. Unlike the ‘pin hole’, the white stem borer larvae are found at the base of tillers close to soil level and attack the base parts of the plants. • The white stem borer lays eggs in a batch of 100. • Larva: Creamy white with yellow head • Pupa: Brown, obtect type, pupates inside the stem • Adult: Small moth with dark brown forewings bearing a white band along the anterior margin and white hind wings. What are the control practices for controlling the white stem borer? • Spray carbaryl 50 WP 1 kg per ha • Spray Methyl parathion 50 EC 1 ml/litre or Phosphamidon 85 WSC 0.5 ml/litre or Dimethoate 30 EC 1.7ml/ltitre. What pest causes defoliation in leaf of ragi plants? In ragi plant many pests causes defoliation. Some of the major pests involvead are, * A lepidopteran worm, Spodoptera exigua commonly known as cut worm * A lepidopteran worm , Estigmene lactinea commonly known as Black Hairy Caterpillar * An Orthopteran pest, Grasshopper How to identify the infestation of the cut worm? Larvae are brownish grey in color. Larva feed on leaves especially in the nursery. Larvae hide in the soil during daytime and feed on leaves at night. They pupate in the soil in earthen cocoons. Adult moths look brown with white hindwings. How to control the cut worm pest in ragi? * Spray Malathion 50 EC 2 ml/litre or Carbaryl 50 WP. 40 gm/litre * Poison Bait: Wheat bran – 1 kg + Monocrotophos (10ml) + Jaggery – 100 gm + Water to moisten the bait. Short holes in the leaves of young plants. What causes this symptom? A coleopteran pest, Chaetocnema pusaensis, commonly called as flea beetle causes short holes in the leaves of young plants. How to identify the infestation of the flea beetle in ragi field? They can be identified from the followings : 1. Nature of Damage: Adult bites and makes holes in the leaves of young plants and affects their vigour both in the nursery and in the young transplanted crop. 2. Adult: Dark blue beetle. What are practices to control the flea beetle attack in ragi field? What are the recommended sprays? * Weed control in and around planting sites to deprive larvae of food sources needed for successful development * Removal of old crop debris and other surface trash to deprive over wintering beetles protective cover. * Efficacy of seed dressing insecticides against flea beetle: Damage was less in carbosulfan @ 6.25 g a.i. /kg of seed (3.88%) and was on par with imidacloprid @ 6 g and 3 g a.i. / kg of seed (4.66 and 5.9%, respectively) and thiamethoxam @ 3.5 g a.i / kg (6.13%). How can one identify the black hairy caterpillar presence in a ragi field? Defoliation is the identity for the presence of the pest. From the following identities one can identify the pest. Eggs are laid on the plants Larva: Thick with black head and hairs all over the body Pupates in soil Adult moths are large white with crimson markings How to control grasshoppers in ragi field? Both Nymph and adult defoliate the crop. The long-term control of grasshoppers is possible through the use of cultural practices like tillage, fall clean-up, trap cropping, early seeding, and early harvest. What is the pest that feeds on the ear head of ragi? A lepidopteran pest called earhead caterpillars (Sitotroga cerealella) feeds on the ear head of ragi. How to control the ear head caterpillars? Dust the maturing earheads with 4% Carbaryl, or spray 0.1% Carbaryl (W.P) What causes the yellowing of leaves with ant infestation and stunted plant growth? Apihd attack causes the infested plants to turn pale yellow and become stunted. They remain at the base of the plant and suck the sap. Wilting and drying of plants in patches is the typical symptom. Black ants attend them for honeydew and their presence confirm the root aphid attack. It occurs on many grasses too. How to confirm the presence of aphids? * Honey dew secretion and infestation of ants * Nymph and adult attack underground parts of the plants, they suck sap from roots. Plants become weak and may wilt. * Pinkish and globular aphids (Tetraneura nigriabdominalis) or greenish yellow aphids (Schizaphis graminum) or brown aphids (Hysteroneura setariae) will be seen at the base of the plant. How to control the infestation of aphids? * Mixing crude oil in irrigation water is a common method for its control. * Mix Dimethoate 30EC 3 ml in one litre of water and drench the rhizosphere of the infested and surrounding plant with solution to check the root aphid * Spray the crop with Dimecron 100EC (250 ml/ha in 1000 litres of water). * Spray carbaryl 50 WP@ 1 kg/ha (500 l spray fluid/ha). Leaves and tender shoots nibbled with death of grown up plants. What causes these symptoms? A coleopteran pest called root grub (Holotrichia consanguinea) possibly can cause these symptoms. Grub feed on the root and rootlets, results in the death of the plants. Adults nibble on the leaves and tender shoots. They can move under soil, thus can migrate from one plant to another. How will a root grub of ragi look like? Grub is fleshy, ‘C’ shaped, whitish yellow in colour found close to the base of the dump. Adult is dark brown. Top of page Post Harvest technology What is the apt time for harvesting rain fed ragi? Ragi matures 3 to 5 months after sowing, depending on variety, season and soil properties. When the earhead on the main shoot and 50% of the earheads on the crop turn brown, the crop is ready for the harvest. What is the maturity index for harvesting ragi under irrigated conditions? Under irrigated conditions, crop is harvested about 3.5 months after transplanting. In case of rain fed ragi harvest the crop when the ears are yellowish brown. What are the harvesting practices to be followed for rain fed ragi? Rainfed crops are cut close to ground, stalks are allowed to wither for a day or two in field, and then bundled and stacked for about 2 months before threshing. To separate the grains, dried ear heads are beaten with sticks; sheaves are trodden by bullocks or crushed by stone rollers. Separate grains are winnowed and cleaned. What are the harvesting practices for ragi under irrigated conditions? Ragi under irrigated condition is harvested about 3.5 months after transplanting. Ear heads are gathered when they ripen; 3 or 4 pickings are usually required to collect all ear heads from a field. Heap the harvested ear heads and cover the heaps with ragi straw for 2 to 3 days as a time for drying before threshing. Straw from irrigated plants is coarse and thick and is rarely cut. It is grazed down or sometimes turned under as manure for next crop. What is the average yield expected in case of ragi? Seed yield is 5 million tons per hectare. Yield depends on variety and is directly related to duration, height and tillering capacity of type grown. Types with straight spikes give better yields than those with curved spikes. What are the conditions to be considered while threshing ragi ear heads? Green ear heads if harvested will contaminate the seeds with immature seeds and interface cleaning, drying and grading. Dry ear heads until seed moisture content is 15% and separate manually by threshing with pliable bamboo stick or machine thresher. How to grade the threshed ragi seeds? Threshed seeds should be pre cleaned before sun drying; seeds must be dried to 12% before grading. The measurements to be considered are * BSS 10 x 10 (aperture width 2.4mm) as scalper * BSS 12 x 12 (aperture width 2.0 mm) as grader, processing loss will be 10 to 15%. How to pre harden the ragi seeds after harvesting and grading? Soak seeds in 0.5% CaCl2 at 1:1 ratio until visible expression of embryonic growth. Air dry the seeds to original moisture content. How to store ragi grains after harvesting practices? In less humid places, use fresh gada cloth for short term storage. For long term storage, in humid places 700 gauge ploythene bag may be used and also ragi grains are stored in metallic tins, earthen grain bins, and gunny bags. Underground pits called hagevu in Karnataka, India were bottle shaped excavations used to store ragi. Ragi seeds resist insect and fungal attacks, but it is preferable to dust the storage bags with lindane. How to do milling in ragi? Ragi can be milled by wet conditioning. It can be steamed followed by milling in a hammer or plate mill or a roller flour mill. Will parboiling improve the grain quality in ragi? Parboiling of ragi helps in improving quality of ragi dumpling by eliminating its slimy texture. Flour from puffed ragi has good flavour and can be used in snacks and supplementary foods in South India ragi is used as gruel, dumpling, roti, dosa or porridge. What is the malting capacity for ragi? What is the use of malted ragi? Compared to other millets, ragi is most suitable from the stand point of product quality and enzyme release for malting. The malted ragi flour can be used along with germinated green gram flour to formulate a high calorie dense weaning food having excellent nutritional qualities. Ragi flour can be used with milk beverages. The grain can be made into a fermented drink (or beer). It is also used for as a flavoured drink in festivals. Is ragi better than rice to serve as a diet for poor people? The nutritive value of ragi is better than that of rice and other cereals. Ragi is especially valuable as it contains the amino acid methionine, which is lacking in the diets of hundreds of millions of the poor who live on starchy staples such as cassava, plantain, polished rice, or maize meal. Is there any nutritive value in ragi husk just like wheat grains? The husk forms 5.6 per cent of the weight of the grain. It is rich in calcium, phosphorus and iron, the calcium content is higher than in the common cereals and millets. The major proteins of ragi are prolamins and gluteins and they appear to be adequate in all the essential amino acids. Germinated finger millet is used to make weaning foods for infants. What are the possible products out of ragi grain as food? The grain is used in the preparation of food items such as ragi dosa, ragi balls, pancake, vermicelli, malt, biscuit, beer, papads, millet mix, bread, roti etc. The grain is made into a fermented drink (or beer). It is also used for as a flavoured drink in festivals. Straw makes valuable fodder for both working and milking animals. How far ragi is good in health and medicinal point of view? Finger millet is a popular food among diabetic patients in the country. Its slow digestion indicates low blood sugar levels after a finger millet diet thereby reacting as a safer food for diabetics. The leaf juice has been given to women in childbirth. Ragi can prevent leprosy, liver disease, measles, pleurisy, pneumonia, and small pox in long term. Ragi has the highest calcium content and good fiber content. This is a very good source of calcium for young growing children and aged people who need calcium supplement. How to make ragi noodles? Sieve 70 g of refined wheat flour (control) and 30 g of ragi flour blends in a BS 60 mesh sieve, steam for five minutes, cool and sieve again. Fill the flour in the mixing compartment of the pasta-making machine and blend with water 30 ml and salt 2g for 30 minutes and extrude. Steam the noodles for 5 minutes. Allow to temper in room temperature for 8 hours. Dry in a cabinet drier at 60 for 6 hours. How to make ragi vermicelli? It is similar to ragi noodles except for that the floor composition as follows * Refined wheat flour – 30 g * Whole wheat flour – 40g. Mix them and fill it pasta making machine, extrude, steam and dry them. How to make ragi idiyappam? It is similar to ragi noodles except for that the floor composition as follows * Rice flour – 80 g * Ragi – 30g Mix them and fill it pasta making machine, extrude, steam and dry them. What is ragi mudde? How to prepare it? Ragi mudde is a food item unique to the state of Karnataka, India. It is mainly popular with the rural folk of Karnataka. Ragi mudde is made of ragi flour by pouring the flour into boiling water with some amount of salt. Mix it together to make soft dough. The dough is then made into tennis-ball sized balls (mudde) and served hot. Ragi mudde is usually eaten with ghee and sambar. How to make ragi mudde along with rice? Take 4 cups of water and a fistful of rice grains in a saucepan, add salt and bring to a boil. Cover and cook the rice until the grains are soft and then just pour or dump ragi flour into the pot. Don’t stir now; this is the way folks back at home cook. Cover and put this mixture on medium heat for few minutes until the steam lifts the plate covering the pan. Using a wooden masher or whisk, stir the ragi-rice mixture vigorously with no lumps. Let the stove in simmer heat and do steam cooking for about 15 minutes. After cooking, let it cool down a bit and make mudda or balls out of with hands or ice cream scooper. Place the ragi mudda in a bowl and pour the sambhar over it. Not too cold and not too hot, just warm is perfect for the palate. Drizzle ghee over it How to make ragi malt? Take 1 tablespoon ragi flour in a cup. Add half glass water slowly. Combine to smooth, lump free paste. Do not add the flour directly to boiling water, it will clump into lumps. In a vessel, heat till the water or milk reaches boiling stage.Then add the dissolved ragi flour solution slowly to the boiling water (or milk), continuously stirring to prevent lumps. If you add the flour mix to water before the boiling stage, the flour will separate and it won’t be suitable to drinking. Add sugar or jaggery and pinch of cardamom (Elachi) powder. Reduce the heat to medium level, and simmer the ragi malt for 5 minutes, stirring in-between. Turn off the heat. Let it cool to warm, and then pour into a glass or cup. This serves for two cups. How to make ragi halwa? Fry 100g ragi flour in 50g ghee in a heavy bottom kadai. Add coconut milk powder with the flour and cook the flour in water. When it thickens add 100g sugar. When the halwa forms a mass, add 50g ghee and stir. Stir continuously till the halwa leaves the sides of the pan and the ghee separates from halwa. Add the coarsely ground cashew nuts. Spread on a greased tray and cut into pieces. How to make ready to use beverage mix? Clean and soak ragi for 12 hrs. Allow it to germinate for 48hrs. Shade dry them for 24hrs and devegetate them followed by kilning at 700 – 750C. Grind it in a local floor mill. Perform sieving in a BS 80 mesh. To make it a malt floor add, milk powder, powdered sugar or jiggery and pack it with minimum moisture. Top of page GALLERY Copyright © 2011 TNAU. All rights reserved
Garden Website Design, Free CSS Template Home Botany Climate Season & Varieties Cultivation System Nursery Management Cultivation Practices Nutrient Management Crop Protection Farm Implements Post Harvest Technology Marketing Institutions & Schemes FAQ Web Links Web Links Particulars Website Address Ministry of Agriculture http://agricoop.nic.in/ DACNET http://dacnet.nic.in/ Tamilnadu government http://www.tn.gov.in/ Agricultural Department-Govt. of Tamil Nadu http://www.tn.gov.in/departments/agri.html Directorate of Economics and Statistics http://www.dacnet.nic.in/eands/ Indian Council of Agricultural Research http://www.icar.org.in/ Tamil Nadu Agricultural University http://www.tnau.ac.in/ Kerala Agricultural University http://www.kau.edu/ Agricultural Portal http://www.kissankerala.net/home.jsp University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore http://www.uasbangalore.edu.in/ University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad http://www.uasd.edu/ Acharya N G Ranga Agricultural University http://www.angrau.net/ Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology http://www.ouat.ac.in/ Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan (VPKAS) http://vpkas.nic.in/ Agricultural Marketing Information Network http://www.agmarknet.nic.in/ Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices http://www.dacnet.nic.in/cacp/ India Development Gateway http://www.indg.in/ Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business http://www.tnsamb.gov.in/ National Institute of Agricultural Marketing http://ccsniam.gov.in/ National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited http://nafed-india.com/ Tamilnadu industrial investment corporations http://tiic.org Tamilnadu industrial development corporation http://www.tidco.com/goi.html Industrial And Technical Consultancy Organization Of Tamilnadu Limited http://www.itcot.com Tamilnadu Small Industries Development Corporation Limited http://www.sidco.tn.gov.in National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development http://www.nabard.org Indian market data http://www.indiandata.com Indian traders market http://www.trademart.in Indian market http://dir.indiamart.com Indian industries http://www.indianindustry.com Indian traders http://www.tradeindia.com Indian exporters http://www.exportersindia.com/ Agricultural rural industries in India http://ari.nic.in Indian business http://business.mapsofindia.com Agricultural marketing in India http://agmarknet.nic.in National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, Pusa http://www.nbpgr.ernet.in/ Ministry of Food Processing Industries http://mofpi.nic.in/ Agricultural Processed Food Products Export Development Authority http://www.apeda.com Central Food Technological Research Institute http://www.cftri.com The Post Harvest Technology Center (PHTC) http://www.tnau.ac.in/aecricbe/phtc Food and Agriculture Organisation of United Nations http://www.fao.org/ ikisan http://www.ikisan.com/ International Crop Research Institute for Semi Arid Crops http://www.icrisat.org/ Top of page GALLERY Copyright © TNAU | All Rights Reserved
